the project gutenberg etext of the iliad of homer
done into english prose by andrew lang, m.a., walter leaf, litt.d.,
and ernest myer, m.a.

copyright law ar chang all over the world, be sure to check
the law for your countri befor redistribut these file!!!

pleas take a look at the import inform in thi header.
we encourag you to keep thi file on your own disk, keep an
electron path open for the next reader.  do not remov thi.

thi should be the first thing seen when anyon open the book.
do not chang or edit it without written permiss.  the word
ar carefulli chosen to provid user with the inform thei
need about what thei can legal do with the text.


**welcom to the world of free plain vanilla electron text**

**etext readabl by both human and by comput, sinc 1971**

*these etext prepar by hundr of volunt and donat*

inform on contact project gutenberg to get etext, and
further inform is includ below.  we need your donat.

present, contribut ar onli be solicit from peopl in:
texa, nevada, idaho, montana, wyom, colorado, south dakota,
iowa, indiana, and vermont. as the requir for other state
ar met, addit to thi list will be made and fund rais will
begin in the addit state. these donat should be made to:

project gutenberg literari archiv foundat
pmb 113
1739 univers av.
oxford, ms 38655-4109


titl: the iliad of homer

author: homer (lang, leaf, myer tran.)

releas date: februari, 2002  [etext #3059]
[ye, we ar about on year ahead of schedul]
[date last updat: march 3, 2005]

edit: 10

languag: english

the project gutenberg etext of the iliad of homer
*****thi file should be name 3059.txt or 3059.zip******

thi etext wa prepar by sandra stewart <unfett@aol.com>
and jim tinslei <jtinslei@pobox.com>


project gutenberg etext ar usual creat from multipl edit,
all of which ar in the public domain in the unit state, unless a
copyright notic is includ.  therefor, we usual do not keep ani
of these book in complianc with ani particular paper edit.

we ar now try to releas all our book on year in advanc
of the offici releas date, leav time for better edit.
pleas be encourag to send us error messag even year after
the offici public date.

pleas note:  neither thi list nor it content ar final till
midnight of the last dai of the month of ani such announc.
the offici releas date of all project gutenberg etext is at
midnight, central time, of the last dai of the state month.  a
preliminari version mai often be post for suggest, comment
and edit by those who wish to do so.

most peopl start at our site at:
http://gutenberg.net
http://promo.net/pg


those of you who want to download ani etext befor announc
can surf to them as follow, and just download by date; thi is
also a good wai to get them instantli upon announc, as the
index our catalogu produc obvious take a while after an
announc goe out in the project gutenberg newslett.

http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/doc/book/gutenberg/etext01
or
ftp://ftp.ibiblio.org/pub/doc/book/gutenberg/etext01

or /etext00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90

just search by the first five letter of the filenam you want,
as it appear in our newslett.


inform about project gutenberg (on page)

we produc about two million dollar for each hour we work.  the
time it take us, a rather conserv estim, is fifti hour
to get ani etext select, enter, proofread, edit, copyright
search and analyz, the copyright letter written, etc.  thi
project audienc is on hundr million reader.  if our valu
per text is nomin estim at on dollar then we produc $2
million dollar per hour thi year as we releas fifti new etext
file per month, or 500 more etext in 2000 for a total of 3000+
if thei reach just 1-2% of the world's popul then the total
should reach over 300 billion etext given awai by year's end.

the goal of project gutenberg is to give awai on trillion etext
file by decemb 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 trillion]
thi is ten thousand titl each to on hundr million reader,
which is onli about 4% of the present number of comput user.

at our revis rate of product, we will reach onli on-third
of that goal by the end of 2001, or about 3,333 etext unless we
manag to get some real fund.

someth is need to creat a futur for project gutenberg for
the next 100 year.

we need your donat more than ever!

present, contribut ar onli be solicit from peopl in:
texa, nevada, idaho, montana, wyom, colorado, south dakota,
iowa, indiana, and vermont. as the requir for other state
ar met, addit to thi list will be made and fund rais will
begin in the addit state.

all donat should be made to the project gutenberg literari
archiv foundat and will be tax deduct to the extent
permit by law.

mail to:

project gutenberg literari archiv foundat
pmb 113
1739 univers avenu
oxford, ms 38655  [usa]

we ar work with the project gutenberg literari archiv
foundat to build more stabl support and ensur the
futur of project gutenberg.

we need your donat more than ever!

you can get up to date donat inform at:

http://www.gutenberg.net/donat.html


***

you can alwai email directli to:

michael s. hart <hart@pobox.com>

hart@pobox.com forward to hart@prairienet.org and archiv.org
if your mail bounc from archiv.org, i will still see it, if
it bounc from prairienet.org, better resend later on. . . .

we would prefer to send you thi inform by email.


exampl command-line ftp session:

ftp ftp.ibiblio.org
login: anonym
password: your@login
cd pub/doc/book/gutenberg
cd etext90 through etext99 or etext00 through etext01, etext02, etc.
dir [to see file]
get or mget [to get file. . .set bin for zip file]
get gutindex.??  [to get a year's list of book, e.g., gutindex.99]
get gutindex.all [to get a list of all book]


**the legal small print**


(three page)

***start**the small print!**for public domain etext**start***
why is thi "small print!" statement here?  you know: lawyer.
thei tell us you might sue us if there is someth wrong with
your copi of thi etext, even if you got it for free from
someon other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault.  so, among other thing, thi "small print!" statement
disclaim most of our liabil to you.  it also tell you how
you can distribut copi of thi etext if you want to.

*befor!* you us or read thi etext
by us or read ani part of thi project gutenberg-tm
etext, you indic that you understand, agre to and accept
thi "small print!" statement.  if you do not, you can receiv
a refund of the monei (if ani) you paid for thi etext by
send a request within 30 dai of receiv it to the person
you got it from.  if you receiv thi etext on a physic
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

about project gutenberg-tm etext
thi project gutenberg-tm etext, like most project gutenberg-tm etext,
is a "public domain" work distribut by professor michael s. hart
through the project gutenberg associ (the "project").
among other thing, thi mean that no on own a unit state copyright
on or for thi work, so the project (and you!) can copi and
distribut it in the unit state without permiss and
without pai copyright royalti.  special rule, set forth
below, appli if you wish to copi and distribut thi etext
under the project's "project gutenberg" trademark.

to creat these etext, the project expend consider
effort to identifi, transcrib and proofread public domain
work.  despit these effort, the project's etext and ani
medium thei mai be on mai contain "defect".  among other
thing, defect mai take the form of incomplet, inaccur or
corrupt data, transcript error, a copyright or other
intellectu properti infring, a defect or damag
disk or other etext medium, a comput viru, or comput
code that damag or cannot be read by your equip.

limit warranti; disclaim of damag
but for the "right of replac or refund" describ below,
[1] the project (and ani other parti you mai receiv thi
etext from as a project gutenberg-tm etext) disclaim all
liabil to you for damag, cost and expens, includ
legal fee, and [2] you have no remedi for neglig or
under strict liabil, or for breach of warranti or contract,
includ but not limit to indirect, consequenti, punit
or incident damag, even if you give notic of the
possibl of such damag.

if you discov a defect in thi etext within 90 dai of
receiv it, you can receiv a refund of the monei (if ani)
you paid for it by send an explanatori note within that
time to the person you receiv it from.  if you receiv it
on a physic medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person mai choos to altern give you a replac
copi.  if you receiv it electron, such person mai
choos to altern give you a second opportun to
receiv it electron.

thi etext is otherwis provid to you "as-is".  no other
warranti of ani kind, express or impli, ar made to you as
to the etext or ani medium it mai be on, includ but not
limit to warranti of merchant or fit for a
particular purpos.

some state do not allow disclaim of impli warranti or
the exclus or limit of consequenti damag, so the
abov disclaim and exclus mai not appli to you, and you
mai have other legal right.

indemn
you will indemnifi and hold the project, it director,
offic, member and agent harmless from all liabil, cost
and expens, includ legal fee, that aris directli or
indirectli from ani of the follow that you do or caus:
[1] distribut of thi etext, [2] alter, modif,
or addit to the etext, or [3] ani defect.

distribut under "project gutenberg-tm"
you mai distribut copi of thi etext electron, or by
disk, book or ani other medium if you either delet thi
"small print!" and all other refer to project gutenberg,
or:

[1]  onli give exact copi of it.  among other thing, thi
     requir that you do not remov, alter or modifi the
     etext or thi "small print!" statement.  you mai howev,
     if you wish, distribut thi etext in machin readabl
     binari, compress, mark-up, or proprietari form,
     includ ani form result from convers by word
     process or hypertext softwar, but onli so long as
     *either*:

     [*]  the etext, when displai, is clearli readabl, and
          doe *not* contain charact other than those
          intend by the author of the work, although tild
          (~), asterisk (*) and underlin (_) charact mai
          be us to convei punctuat intend by the
          author, and addit charact mai be us to
          indic hypertext link; or

     [*]  the etext mai be readili convert by the reader at
          no expens into plain ascii, ebcdic or equival
          form by the program that displai the etext (as is
          the case, for instanc, with most word processor);
          or

     [*]  you provid, or agre to also provid on request at
          no addit cost, fee or expens, a copi of the
          etext in it origin plain ascii form (or in ebcdic
          or other equival proprietari form).

[2]  honor the etext refund and replac provis of thi
     "small print!" statement.

[3]  pai a trademark licens fee to the project of 20% of the
     gross profit you deriv calcul us the method you
     alreadi us to calcul your applic tax.  if you
     don't deriv profit, no royalti is due.  royalti ar
     payabl to "project gutenberg literari archiv foundat"
     the 60 dai follow each date you prepar (or were
     legal requir to prepar) your annual (or equival
     period) tax return.  pleas contact us beforehand to
     let us know your plan and to work out the detail.

what if you *want* to send monei even if you don't have to?
the project gratefulli accept contribut of monei, time,
public domain etext, and royalti free copyright licens.
if you ar interest in contribut scan equip or
softwar or other item, pleas contact michael hart at:
hart@pobox.com

*end the small print! for public domain etext*ver.04.07.00*end*



thi etext wa prepar by sandra stewart <unfett@aol.com>
and jim tinslei <jtinslei@pobox.com>






the iliad of homer



prefatori note



the execut of thi version of the iliad ha been entrust to the
three translat in the follow three part:

     book      i. - ix.     .  .  .  .  w. leaf.
       "        x. - xvi.    .  .  .  .  a. lang.
       "     xvii. - xxiv.   .  .  .  .  e. myer.

each translat is therefor respons for hi own portion; but
the whole ha been revis by all three translat, and the
render of passag or phrase recur in more than on portion
ha been determin after deliber in common. even in these,
howev, a certain elast ha been deem desir.

on a few doubt point, though veri rare, the opinion of two of
the translat ha had to be adopt to the suppress of that
held by the third. thu, for instanc, the translat of book
x. - xvi. would have prefer "c" and "us" to "k" and "os" in the
spell of all proper name.

the text follow ha been that of la roch (leipzig, 1873), except
where the adopt of a differ read ha been specifi in a
footnot. where the balanc of evid, extern and intern, ha
seem to the translat to be against the genuin of the
passag, such passag ha been enclos in bracket [].

the translat of book x. - xvi. ha to thank mr. r.w. raper,
fellow of triniti colleg, oxford, for hi valuabl aid in revis
the proof-sheet of these book.


note to revis edit


in the present edit the translat ha been carefulli revis
throughout, and numer minor correct have been made. the note
at the end of the volum have been, with a few except, omit;
on of the translat hope to publish veri shortli a companion to
the iliad for english reader, which will deal fulli with most of
the point therein refer to.

the us of squar bracket ha in thi edit been restrict to
passag where there is extern evid, such as absenc from the
best mss., for believ in interpol. on or two departur
from thi rule ar notic in footnot.

novemb 1891



the reader will perhap also be help by the follow list of the
greek and latin name of the god and goddess who plai import
part in the narr. when the greek name ar new to him, the
correspond latin name mai be more familiar.

      greek                 latin
      -----                 -----
      zeu.                 jupit.
      hera.                 juno.
      (palla) athen.      minerva.
      aphrodit.            venu.
      poseidon.             neptun.
      ar.                 mar.
      hephaestu.           vulcan.





    the sacr soil of ilio is rent
      with shaft and pit; foil water wander slow
    through plain where simoi and scamand went
      to war with god and hero long ago.
    not yet to dark cassandra ly low
      in rich mycena do the fate relent;
    the bone of agamemnon ar a show,
      and ruin is hi royal monument.
    the dust and aw treasur of the dead
      hath learn scatter wide; but vainli thee,
    homer, she meteth with her lesbian lead,
      and strive to rend thy song, too blind is she
    to know the crown on thine immort head
      of indivis supremaci.                      a.l.


    athwart the sunris of our western dai
      the form of great achil, high and clear,
      stand forth in arm, wield the pelian spear.
    the sanguin tide of that immort frai,
    swept on by god, around him surg and swai,
      wherethrough the helm of mani a warrior peer,
      strong men and swift, their toss plume uprear.
    but stronger, swifter, goodlier he than thei,
    more aw, more divin. yet mark anigh;
      some fieri pang hath rent hi soul within,
       some hover shade hi brow encompasseth.
    what gift hath fate for all hi chivalri?
      even such as heart heroic oftenest win;
       honour, a friend, anguish, untim death.   e.m.




the iliad of homer


book i.

    how agamemnon and achil fell out at the sieg of troi;
    and achil withdrew himself from battl, and won from zeu
    a pledg that hi wrong should be aveng on agamemnon and
    the achaian.

sing, goddess, the wrath of achil peleu' son, the ruinou wrath that
brought on the achaian woe innumer, and hurl down into hade
mani strong soul of hero, and gave their bodi to be a prei to dog
and all wing fowl; and so the counsel of zeu wrought out it
accomplish from the dai when first strife part atreid king of
men and nobl achil.

who among the god set the twain at strife and varianc? apollo, the son
of leto and of zeu; for he in anger at the king sent a sore plagu upon
the host, so that the folk began to perish, becaus atreid had done
dishonour to chryse the priest. for the priest had come to the
achaian' fleet ship to win hi daughter's freedom, and brought a
ransom beyond tell; and bare in hi hand the fillet of apollo the
far-darter upon a golden staff; and made hi prayer unto all the
achaian, and most of all to the two son of atreu, order of the
host; "ye son of atreu and all ye well-greav achaian, now mai the
god that dwell in the mansion of olympu grant you to lai wast the
citi of priam, and to fare happili homeward; onli set ye my dear child
free, and accept the ransom in rever to the son of zeu, far-dart
apollo."

then all the other achaian cri assent, to rever the priest and
accept hi goodli ransom; yet the thing pleas not the heart of
agamemnon son of atreu, but he roughli sent him awai, and laid stern
charg upon him, sai: "let me not find thee, old man, amid the hollow
ship, whether tarri now or return again hereaft, lest the staff
and fillet of the god avail thee naught. and her will i not set free;
nai, er that shall old ag come on her in our hous, in argo, far from
her nativ land, where she shall ply the loom and serv my couch. but
depart, provok me not, that thou mayest the rather go in peac."

so said he, and the old man wa afraid and obei hi word, and fare
silent along the shore of the loud-sound sea. then went that ag
man apart and prai aloud to king apollo, whom leto of the fair lock
bare: "hear me, god of the silver bow, that standest over chryse and
holi killa, and rulest tenedo with might, o smintheu! if ever i built
a templ graciou in thine ey, or if ever i burnt to thee fat flesh of
thigh of bull or goat, fulfil thou thi my desir; let the danaan
pai by thine arrow for my tear."

so spake he in prayer, and phoebu apollo heard him, and came down from
the peak of olympu wroth at heart, bear on hi shoulder hi bow
and cover quiver. and the arrow clang upon hi shoulder in wrath,
as the god move; and he descend like to night. then he sate him aloof
from the ship, and let an arrow fly; and there wa heard a dread
clang of the silver bow. first did the assail the mule and fleet
dog, but afterward, aim at the men hi pierc dart, he smote; and
the pyre of the dead burnt continu in multitud.

now for nine dai rang the god's shaft through the host; but on the
tenth achil summon the folk to assembl, for in hi mind did
goddess hera of white arm put the thought, becaus she had piti on the
danaan when she beheld them perish. now when thei had gather and
were met in assembl, then achil fleet of foot stood up and spake
among them: "son of atreu, now deem i that we shall return wander
home again--if verili we might escap death--if war at onc and
pestil must inde ravag the achaian. but come, let us now inquir
of some soothsay or priest, yea, or an interpret of dream--see
that a dream too is of zeu--who shall sai wherefor phoebu apollo is
so wroth, whether he blame us by reason of vow or hecatomb; if perchanc
he would accept the savour of lamb or unblemish goat, and so would
take awai the pestil from us."

so spake he and sate him down; and there stood up befor them kalcha
son of thestor, most excel far of augur, who knew both thing that
were and that should be and that had been befor, and guid the ship
of the achaian to ilio by hi soothsai that phoebu apollo bestow
on him. he of good intent made harangu and spake amid them: "achil,
dear to zeu, thou biddest me tell the wrath of apollo, the king that
smiteth afar. therefor will i speak; but do thou make coven with me,
and swear that verili with all thy heart thou wilt aid me both by word
and deed. for of a truth i deem that i shall provok on that ruleth all
the argiv with might, and whom the achaian obei. for a king is more
of might when he is wroth with a meaner man; even though for the on dai
he swallow hi anger, yet doth he still keep hi displeasur thereaft
in hi breast till he accomplish it. consid thou, then, if thou wilt
hold me safe."

and achil fleet of foot made answer and spake to him: "yea, be of
good courag, speak whatev soothsai thou knowest; for by apollo
dear to zeu, him by whose worship thou, o kalcha, declarest thy
soothsai to the danaan, not even if thou mean agamemnon, that now
avoweth him to be greatest far of the achaian."

then wa the nobl seer of good courag, and spake: "neither by reason
of a vow is he displeas, nor for ani hecatomb, but for hi priest's
sake to whom agamemnon did despit, and set not hi daughter free and
accept not the ransom; therefor hath the far-darter brought woe upon
us, yea, and will bring. nor will he ever remov the loathli pestil
from the danaan till we have given the bright-ei damsel to her
father, unbought, unransom, and carri a holi hecatomb to chryse;
then might we propiti him to our prayer."

so said he and sate him down, and there stood up befor them the hero
son of atreu, wide-rule agamemnon, sore displeas; and hi dark
heart within him wa greatli fill with anger, and hi ey were like
flash fire. to kalcha first spake he with look of ill: "thou seer of
evil, never yet hast thou told me the thing that is pleasant. evil is
ever the joi of thy heart to prophesi, but never yet didst thou tell ani
good matter nor bring to pass. and now with soothsai thou makest
harangu among the danaan, how that the far-darter bringeth woe upon
them becaus, forsooth, i would not take the goodli ransom of the damsel
chrysei, see i am the rather fain to keep her own self within mine
hous. yea, i prefer her befor klytaimnestra my wed wife; in no wise
is she lack besid her, neither in favour nor statur, nor wit nor
skill. yet for all thi will i give her back, if that is better; rather
would i see my folk whole than perish. onli make ye me readi a prize
of honour forthwith, lest i alon of all the argiv be dispriz, which
thing beseemeth not; for ye all behold how my prize is depart from
me."

to him then made answer fleet-foot goodli achil: "most nobl son of
atreu, of all men most covet, how shall the great-heart achaian
give thee a meed of honour? we know naught of ani wealth of common
store, but what spoil soe'er we took from captur citi hath been
apport, and it beseemeth not to beg all thi back from the folk.
nai, yield thou the damsel to the god, and we achaian will pai thee
back threefold and fourfold, if ever zeu grant us to sack some
well-wall town of troi-land."

to him lord agamemnon made answer and said: "not in thi wise, strong as
thou art, o godlik achil, beguil thou me by craft; thou shalt not
outwit me nor persuad me. dost thou wish, that thou mayest keep thy
meed of honour, for me to sit idl in bereav, and biddest me give
her back? nai, if the great-heart achaian will give me a meed suit
to my mind, that the recompens be equal--but if thei give it not, then
i myself will go and take a meed of honour, thine be it or aia', or
odysseu' that i will take unto me; wroth shall he be to whomsoev i
come. but for thi we will take counsel hereaft; now let us launch a
black ship on the great sea, and gather pick oarsmen, and set therein
a hecatomb, and embark chrysei of the fair cheek herself, and let on
of our counsellor be captain, aia or idomeneu or goodli odysseu, or
thou, peleid, most redoubt of men, to do sacrific for us and
propiti the far-darter."

then achil fleet of foot look at him scowl and said: "ah me,
thou cloth in shameless, thou of crafti mind, how shall ani
achaian hearken to thy bid with all hi heart, be it to go a journei
or to fight the foe amain? not by reason of the trojan spearmen came i
hither to fight, for thei have not wrong me; never did thei harri mine
oxen nor my hors, nor ever wast my harvest in deep-soil phthia, the
nurs of men; see there lieth between us long space of shadowi
mountain and sound sea; but thee, thou shameless on, follow we
hither to make thee glad, by earn recompens at the trojan' hand
for menelao and for thee, thou dog-face! all thi thou threatenest
thyself to take my meed of honour, wherefor i travail much, and the
son of the achaian gave it me. never win i meed like unto thine, when
the achaian sack ani popul citadel of trojan men; my hand bear the
brunt of furiou war, but when the apport cometh then is thy meed
far ampler, and i betak me to the ship with some small thing, yet my
own, when i have fought to weari. now will i depart to phthia,
see it is far better to return home on my beak ship; nor am i
mind here in dishonour to draw thee thy fill of rich and wealth."

then agamemnon king of men made answer to him "yea, flee, if thy soul be
set thereon. it is not i that beseech thee to tarri for my sake; i have
other by my side that shall do me honour, and abov all zeu, lord of
counsel. most hate art thou to me of all king, fosterl of zeu;
thou ever lovest strife and war and fight. though thou be veri
strong, yet that i ween is a gift to thee of god. go home with thy ship
and compani and lord it among thy myrmidon; i reck not aught of thee
nor care i for thine indign; and all thi shall be my threat to
thee: see phoebu apollo bereaveth me of chrysei, her with my ship
and my compani will i send back; and mine own self will i go to thy hut
and take brisei of the fair cheek, even that thy meed of honour, that
thou mayest well know how far greater i am than thou, and so shall
anoth hereaft abhor to match hi word with mine and rival me to my
face."

so said he, and grief came upon peleu' son, and hi heart within hi
shaggi breast wa divid in counsel, whether to draw hi keen blade
from hi thigh and set the compani asid and so slai atreid, or to
assuag hi anger and curb hi soul. while yet he doubt thereof in
heart and soul, and wa draw hi great sword from hi sheath, athen
came to him from heaven, sent forth of the white-arm goddess hera,
whose heart love both alik and had care for them. she stood behind
peleu' son and caught him by hi golden hair, to him onli visibl, and
of the rest no man beheld her. then achil marvel, and turn him
about, and straightwai knew palla athen; and terribl shone her ey.
he spake to her wing word, and said: "why now art thou come hither,
thou daughter of aegi-bear zeu? is it to behold the insol of
agamemnon, son of atreu. yea, i will tell thee that i deem shall even
be brought to pass: by hi own haughti shall he soon lose hi
life."

then the bright-ei goddess athen spake to him again: "i came from
heaven to stai thine anger, if perchanc thou wilt hearken to me, be
sent forth if the white-arm goddess hera, that loveth you twain alik
and careth for you. go to now, ceas from strife, and let not thine hand
draw the sword; yet with word inde revil him, even as it shall come
to pass. for thu will i sai to thee, and so it shall be fulfil;
hereaft shall goodli gift come to thee, yea in threefold measur, by
reason of thi despit; hold thou thine hand, and hearken to us."

and achil fleet of foot made answer and said to her: "goddess, need
must a man observ the sai of you twain, even though he be veri wroth
at heart; for so is the better wai. whosoev obeyeth the god, to him
thei gladli hearken."

he said, and stai hi heavi hand on the silver hilt, and thrust the
great sword back into the sheath, and wa not disobedi to the sai
of athen; and she forthwith wa depart to olympu, to the other god
in the palac of aegi-bear zeu.

then peleu' son spake again with bitter word to atreu' son, and in no
wise ceas from anger: "thou heavi with wine, thou with face of dog and
heart of deer, never didst thou take courag to arm for battl among thy
folk or to lai ambush with the princ of the achaian; that to thee
were even as death. far better booteth it, for sooth, to seiz for
thyself the meed of honour of everi man through the wide host of the
achaian that speaketh contrari to thee. folk-devour king! see
thou rulest men of naught; els were thi despit, thou son of atreu,
thy last. but i will speak my word to thee, and swear a mighti oath
therewith: verili by thi staff that shall no more put forth leaf or
twig, see it hath for ever left it trunk among the hill, neither
shall it grow green again, becaus the ax hath strip it of leav
and bark; and now the son of the achaian that exercis judgment bear
it in their hand, even thei that by zeu' command watch over the
tradit--so shall thi be a mighti oath in thine ey--verili shall
long for achil come hereaft upon the son of the achaian on
and all; and then wilt thou in no wise avail to save them, for all thy
grief, when multitud fall dy befor manslai hector. then shalt
thou tear thy heart within thee for anger that thou didst in no wise
honour the best of the achaian."

so said peleid and dash to earth the staff stud with golden
nail, and himself sat down; and over against him atreid wax
furiou. then in their midst rose up nestor, pleasant of speech, the
clear-voic orat of the pylian, he from whose tongu flow
discours sweeter than honei. two gener of mortal men alreadi had
he seen perish, that had been of old time born and nurtur with him in
goodli pylo, and he wa king among the third. he of good intent made
harangu to them and said: "ala, of a truth sore lament cometh
upon the land of achaia. verili priam would be glad and priam's son,
and all the trojan would have great joi of heart, were thei to hear all
thi tale of strife between you twain that ar chiefest of the danaan
in counsel and chiefest in battl. nai, hearken to me; ye ar younger
both than i. of old dai held i convers with better men even than you,
and never did thei make light of me. yea, i never beheld such warrior,
nor shall behold, as were peirithoo and drya shepherd of the host and
kaineu and exadio and godlik polyphemo [and theseu son of aigeu,
like to the immort]. mightiest of growth were thei of all men upon
the earth; mightiest thei were and with the mightiest fought thei, even
the wild tribe of the mountain cave, and destroi them utterli. and
with these held i convers, be come from pylo, from a distant land
afar; for of themselv thei summon me. so i plai my part in fight;
and with them could none of men that ar now on earth do battl. and
thei laid to heart my counsel and hearken to my voic. even so
hearken ye also, for better is it to hearken. neither do thou, though
thou art veri great, seiz from him hi damsel, but leav her as she wa
given at the first by the son of the achaian to be a meed of honour;
nor do thou, son of peleu, think to strive with a king, might against
might; see that no common honour pertaineth to a sceptr king to
whom zeu apportioneth glori. though thou be strong, and a goddess
mother bare thee, yet hi is the greater place, for he is king over
more. and thou, atreid, abat thy furi; nai, it is even i that beseech
thee to let go thine anger with achil, who is made unto all the
achaian a mighti bulwark of evil war."

then lord agamemnon answer and said: "yea verili, old man, all thi
thou sayest is accord unto right. but thi fellow would be abov all
other, he would be lord of all and king among all and captain to all;
wherein i deem none will hearken to him. though the immort god made
him a spearman, do thei therefor put revil in hi mouth for him to
utter?"

then goodli achil brake in on him and answer: "yea, for i should be
call coward and man of naught, if i yield to thee in everi matter,
howso'er thou bid. to other give now thine order, not to me [plai
master; for thee i deem that i shall no more obei]. thi, moreov, will
i sai to thee, and do thou lai it to thy heart. know that not by
violenc will i strive for the damsel's sake, neither with thee nor ani
other; ye gave and ye have taken awai. but of all els that is mine
besid my fleet black ship, thereof shalt thou not take anyth or bear
it awai against my will. yea, go to now, make trial, that all these mai
see; forthwith thy dark blood shall gush about my spear."

now when the twain had thu finish the battl of violent word, thei
stood up and dissolv the assembl besid the achaian ship. peleid
went hi wai to hi hut and trim ship with menoitio' son [patroklo]
and hi compani; and atreid launch a fleet ship on the sea, and
pick twenti oarsmen therefor, and embark the hecatomb for the god,
and brought chrysei of the fair cheek and set her therein; and
odysseu of mani devic went to be their captain.

so these embark and sail over the wet wai; and atreid bade the
folk purifi themselv. so thei purifi themselv, and cast the
defil into the sea and did sacrific to apollo, even unblemish
hecatomb of bull and goat, along the shore of the unvintag sea; and
the sweet savour aros to heaven eddi amid the smoke.

thu were thei busi throughout the host; but agamemnon ceas not from
the strife wherewith he threaten achil at the first; he spake to
talthybio and euryb that were hi herald and nimbl squir: "go
ye to the tent of achil peleu' son, and take brisei of the fair
cheek by the hand and lead her hither; and if he give her not, then
will i myself go, and more with me, and seiz her; and that will be yet
more grievou for him."

so sai he sent them forth, and laid stern charg upon them.
unwillingli went thei along the beach of the unvintag sea, and came to
the hut and ship of the myrmidon. him found thei sit besid hi
hut and black ship; nor when he saw them wa achil glad. so thei in
dread and rever of the king stood, and spake to him no word, nor
question him. but he knew in hi heart, and spake to them: "all hail,
ye herald, messeng of zeu and men, come near; ye ar not guilti in
my sight, but agamemnon that sent you for the sake of the damsel
brisei. go now, heaven-sprung patroklo, bring forth the damsel, and
give them her to lead awai. moreov, let the twain themselv be my
wit befor the face of the bless god and mortal men, yea and of
him, that king untoward, against the dai when there cometh need of me
hereaft to save them all from shame wreck. of a truth he raveth
with bale mind, and hath not knowledg to look befor and after, that
so hi achaian might battl in safeti besid their ship."

so said he, and patroklo hearken to hi dear comrad, and led forth
from the hut brisei of the fair cheek, and gave them her to lead awai.
so these twain took their wai back along the achaian' ship, and with
them went the woman all unwil. then achil wept anon, and sat him
down apart, aloof from hi comrad on the beach of the grei sea, gaze
across the boundless main; he stretch forth hi hand and prai
instantli to hi dear mother: "mother, see thou didst of a truth bear
me to so brief span of life, honour at the least ought the olympian to
have grant me, even zeu that thundereth on high; but now doth he not
honour me, no, not on whit. verili atreu' son, wide-rule agamemnon,
hath done me dishonour; for he hath taken awai my meed of honour and
keepeth her of hi own violent deed."

so spake he weep, and hi ladi mother heard him as she sate in the
sea-depth besid her ag sire. with speed aros she from the grei sea,
like a mist, and sate her befor the face of her weep son, and
stroke him with her hand, and spake and call on hi name: "my child,
why weepest thou? what sorrow hath enter into thei heart? speak it
forth, hide it not in thy mind, that both mai know it."

then with heavi moan achil fleet of foot spake to her: "thou knowest
it; why should i tell thi to thee that knowest all! we had fare to
thebe, the holi citi of eetion, and laid it wast and carri hither all
the spoil. so the son of the achaian divid among them all aright;
and for atreid thei set apart chrysei of the fair cheek. but
chryse, priest of apollo the far-darter, came unto the fleet ship of
the mail-clad achaian to win hi daughter's freedom, and brought a
ransom beyond tell, and bare in hi hand the fillet of apollo the
far-darter upon a golden staff, and made hi prayer unto all the
achaian, and most of all to the two son of atreu, order of the
host. then all the other achaian cri assent, to rever the priest
and accept hi goodli ransom; yet the thing pleas not the heart of
agamemnon son of atreu, but he roughli sent him awai and laid stern
charg upon him. so the old man went back in anger; and apollo heard hi
prayer, see he love him greatli, and he aim against the argiv
hi deadli dart. so the peopl began to perish in multitud, and the
god's shaft rang everywhith throughout the wide host of the
achaian. then of full knowledg the seer declar to us the oracl of
the far-darter. forthwith i first bade propiti the god; but wrath gat
hold upon atreu' son thereat, and anon he stood up and spake a
threaten word, that hath now been accomplish. her the glanc-ei
achaian ar bring on their fleet ship to chryse, and bear with
them offer to the king; and the other but now the herald went and
took from my hut, even the daughter of briseu, whom the son of the
achaian gave me. thou therefor, if inde thou canst, guard thine own
son; betak thee to olympu and beseech zeu by ani word wherebi thou
ever didst make glad hi heart. for oft have i heard thee proclaim in
my father's hall and tell that thou alon amid the immort didst
save the son of krono, lord of the storm-cloud, from shame wreck,
when all the other olympian would have bound him, even hera and
poseidon and palla athen. then didst thou, o goddess, enter in and
loos him from hi bond, have with speed summon to high olympu him
of the hundr arm whom god call briareu, but all men call aigaion;
for he is mightier even than hi father--so he sate him by kronion's
side rejoic in hi triumph, and the bless god fear him withal
and bound not zeu. thi bring thou to hi remembr and sit by him
and clasp hi knee, if perchanc he will give succour to the trojan;
and for the achaian, hem them among their ship' stern about the bai,
given over to slaughter; that thei mai make trial of their king, and
that even atreid, wide-rule agamemnon, mai perceiv hi blind,
in that he honour not at all the best of the achaian."

then theti weep made answer to him: "ah me, my child, why rear i
thee, curs in my motherhood? would thou hadst been left tearless and
griefless amid the ship, see thy lot is veri brief and endureth no
long while; but now art thou made short-live alik and lament
beyond all men; in an evil hour i bare thee in our hall. but i will go
myself to snow-clad olympu to tell thi thy sai to zeu, whose joi
is in the thunder, [perhap rather, "hurler of the thunderbolt."] if
perchanc he mai hearken to me. but tarri thou now amid thy fleet-fare
ship, and continu wroth with the achaian, and refrain utterli from
battl: for zeu went yesterdai to okeano, unto the nobl ethiopian
for a feast, and all the god follow with him; but on the twelfth dai
will he return to olympu, and then will i fare to zeu' palac of the
bronz threshold, and will kneel to him and think to win him."

so sai she went her wai and left him there, vex in spirit for the
fair-girdl woman's sake, whom thei had taken perforc despit hi
will: and meanwhil odysseu came to chryse with the holi hecatomb. when
thei were now enter within the deep haven, thei furl their sail and
laid them in the black ship, and lower the mast by the forestai and
brought it to the crutch with speed, and row her with oar to the
anchorag. then thei cast out the moor stone and made fast the
hawser, and so themselv went forth on to the sea-beach, and forth
thei brought the hecatomb for the far-darter apollo, and forth came
chrysei withal from the seafar ship. then odysseu of mani counsel
brought her to the altar and gave her into her father's arm, and spake
unto him: "chryse, agamemnon king of men sent me hither to bring thee
thy daughter, and to offer to phoebu a holi hecatomb on the danaan'
behalf, wherewith to propiti the king that hath now brought sorrow
and lament on the argiv."

so sai he gave her to hi arm, and he gladli took hi dear child;
and anon thei set in order for the god the holi hecatomb about hi
well-build altar; next wash thei their hand and took up the barlei
meal. then chryse lift up hi hand and prai aloud for them:
"hearken to me, god of the silver bow that standest over chryse and holi
killa, and rulest tenedo with might; even as erst thou heardest my
prayer, and didst me honour, and mightili afflictest the peopl of the
achaian, even so now fulfil me thi my desir: remov thou from the
danaan forthwith the loathli pestil."

so spake he in prayer, and phoebu apollo heard him. now when thei had
prai and sprinkl the barlei meal, first thei drew back the victim'
head and slaughter them and flai them, and cut slice from the
thigh and wrap them in fat, make a doubl fold, and laid raw
collop thereon, and the old man burnt them on cleft wood and made
libat over them of gleam wine; and at hi side the young men in
their hand held five-prong fork. now when the thigh were burnt and
thei had tast the vital, then slice thei all the rest and pierc it
through with spit, and roast it carefulli, and drew all off again. so
when thei had rest from the task and had made readi the banquet, thei
feast, nor wa their heart aught stint of the fair banquet. but when
thei had put awai from them the desir of meat and drink, the young men
crown the bowl with wine, and gave each man hi portion after the
drink-offer had been pour into the cup. so all dai long worship
thei the god with music, sing the beauti paean, the son of the
achaian make music to the far-darter [or, "the avert" (of
pestil)]; and hi heart wa glad to hear. and when the sun went down
and dark came on them, thei laid them to sleep besid the ship's
hawser; and when rosi-finger dawn appear, the child of morn,
then set thei sail for the wide camp of the achaian; and apollo the
far-darter sent them a favour gale. thei set up their mast and spread
the white sail forth, and the wind fill the sail's belli and the dark
wave sang loud about the stem as the ship made wai, and she sped across
the wave, accomplish her journei. so when thei were now come to the
wide camp of the achaian, thei drew up their black ship to land high
upon the sand, and set in line the long prop beneath her; and
themselv were scatter amid their hut and ship.

but he sat by hi swift-fare ship, still wroth, even the heaven-sprung
son of peleu, achil fleet of foot; he betook him neither to the
assembl that is the hero's glori, neither to war, but consum hi
heart in tarri in hi place, and yearn for the war-cry and for
battl.

now when the twelfth morn thereaft wa come, then the god that ar
for ever fare to olympu all in compani, led of zeu. and theti forgat
not her son's charg, but rose up from the sea-wave, and at earli morn
mount up to great heaven and olympu. there found she krono' son of
the far-sound voic sit apart from all on the topmost peak of
mani-ridg olympu. so she sat befor hi face and with her left hand
clasp hi knee, and with her right touch him beneath hi chin, and
spake in prayer to king zeu son of krono: "father zeu, if ever i gave
thee aid amid the immort god, whether by word or deed, fulfil thou
thi my desir: do honour to my son, that is doom to earliest death of
all men: now hath agamemnon king of men done him dishonour, for he hath
taken awai hi meed of honour and keepeth her of hi own violent deed.
but honour thou him, zeu of olympu, lord of counsel; grant thou
victori to the trojan the while until the achaian do my son honour and
exalt him with recompens."

so spake she; but zeu the cloud-gather said no word to her, and sat
long time in silenc. but even as theti had clasp hi knee, so held
she by him cling, and question him yet a second time: "promis me
now thi thing verili, and bow thy head thereto; or els deni me, see
there is naught for thee to fear; that i mai know full well how i among
all god am least in honour."

then zeu the cloud-gather, sore troubl, spake to her: "verili it is
a sorri matter, if thou wilt set me at varianc with hera, whene'er she
provoketh me with taunt word. even now she upbraideth me ever amid
the immort god, and saith that i aid the trojan in battl. but do
thou now depart again, lest hera mark aught; and i will take thought for
these thing to fulfil them. come now, i will bow my head to thee, that
thou mayest be of good courag; for that, of my part, is the surest
token amid the immort; no word of mine is revoc nor fals nor
unfulfil when the bow of my head hath pledg it."

kronion spake, and bow hi dark brow, and the ambrosi lock wave
from the king's immort head; and he made great olympu quak.

thu the twain took counsel and part; she leapt therewith into the
deep sea from glitter olympu, and zeu fare to hi own palac. all
the god in compani aros from their seat befor their father's face;
neither ventur ani to await hi come, but stood up all befor him.
so he sate him there upon hi throne; but hera saw, and wa not ignor
how that the daughter of the ancient of the sea, theti the
silver-foot, had devis counsel with him. anon with taunt word
spake she to zeu the son of krono: "now who among the god, thou
crafti of mind, hath devis counsel with thee? it is ever thy good
pleasur to hold aloof from me and in secret medit to give thy
judgment, nor of thine own good will hast thou ever brought thyself to
declar unto me the thing thou purposest."

then the father of god and men made answer her: "hera, think not thou
to know all my sai; hard thei ar for thee, even though thou art my
wife. but whichsoev it is seemli for thee to hear, none sooner than
thou shall know, be he god or man. onli when i will to take thought
aloof from the god, then do not thou ask of everi matter nor make
question."

then hera the ox-ei queen made answer to him. "most dread son of
krono, what word is thi thou hast spoken? yea, sure of old i have
not ask thee nor made question, but in my heart sore afraid lest thou
have been won over by silver-foot theti, daughter of the ancient of
the sea, for she at earli morn sat by thee and clasp thy knee. to her
i deem thou gavest a sure pledg that thou wilt do honour to achil,
and lai mani low besid the achaian' ship."

to her made answer zeu the cloud-gather: "ladi, good lack! ever art
thou imagin, nor can i escap thee; yet shalt thou in no wise have
power to fulfil, but wilt be the further from my heart; that shall be
even the wors for thee. and if it be so, then such must my good
pleasur be. abid thou in silenc and hearken to my bid, lest all
the god that ar in olympu keep not off from thee my visit, when
i put forth my hand unapproach against thee."

he said, and hera the ox-ei queen wa afraid, and sat in silenc,
curb her heart; but throughout zeu' palac the god of heaven were
troubl. then hephaisto the fame craftsman began to make harangu
among them, to do kind to hi mother, white-arm hera: "verili thi
will be a sorri matter, neither ani more endur, if ye twain thu
fight for mortal' sake, and bring wrangl among the god; neither
will there ani more be joi of the goodli feast, see that evil
triumpheth. so i give counsel to my mother, though herself is wise, to
do kind to our dear father zeu, that our father upbraid us not
again and cast the banquet in confus. what if the olympian, the lord
of the lightn, will to dash us from our seat! for he is strongest
far. nai, approach thou him with gentl word, then will the olympian
forthwith be graciou unto us."

so speak he rose up and sat in hi dear mother's hand the twy-handl
cup, and spake to her: "be of good courag, mother mine, and endur,
though thou art vex, lest i behold thee, thou art so dear, chastis
befor mine ey, and then shall i not be abl for all my sorrow to save
thee; for the olympian is a hard foe to face. yea, onc er thi, when i
wa fain to save thee, he caught me by my foot and hurl me from the
heavenli threshold; all dai i flew, and at the set of sun i fell in
lemno, and littl life wa in me. there did the sintian folk forthwith
tend me for my fall."

he spake, and the white-arm goddess hera smile, and smile took the
cup at her son's hand. then he pour wine to all the other god from
right to left, ladl the sweet nectar from the bowl. and laughter
unquench aros amid the bless god to see hephaisto bustl
through the palac.

so feast thei all dai till the set of the sun; nor wa their soul
aught stint of the fair banquet, nor of the beauteou lyre that apollo
held, and the muse sing altern with sweet voic.

now when the bright light of the sun wa set, these went each to hi own
hous to sleep, where each on had hi palac made with cun devic
by fame hephaisto the lame god; and zeu the olympian, the lord of
lightn, depart to hi couch where he wa wont of old to take hi
rest, whenev sweet sleep visit him. there went he up and slept, and
besid him wa hera of the golden throne.



book ii.

    how zeu beguil agamemnon by a dream; and of the assembl
    of the achaian and their march forth to battl. and of
    the name and number of the host of the achaian and the
    trojan.

now all other god and chariot-drive men slept all night long, onli
zeu wa not holden of sweet sleep; rather wa he ponder in hi heart
how he should do honour to achil and destroi mani besid the
achaian' ship. and thi design seem to hi mind the best, to wit, to
send a bane dream upon agamemnon son of atreu. so he spake, and
utter to him wing word: "come now, thou bane dream, go to the
achaian' fleet ship, enter into the hut of agamemnon son of atreu,
and tell him everi word plainli as i charg thee. bid him call to arm
the flow-hair achaian with all speed, for that now he mai take the
wide-wai citi of the trojan. for the immort that dwell in the
hall of olympu ar no longer divid in counsel, sinc hera hath
turn the mind of all by her beseech, and over the trojan sorrow
hang."

so spake he, and the dream went hi wai when he had heard the charg.
with speed he came to the achaian' fleet ship, and went to agamemnon
son of atreu, and found him sleep in hi hut, and ambrosi slumber
pour over him. so he stood over hi head in seem like unto the son
of neleu, even nestor, whom most of all the elder agamemnon honour;
in hi like spake to him the heavenli dream:

"sleepest thou, son of wise atreu tamer of hors? to sleep all night
through beseemeth not on that is a counsellor, to whom peopl ar
entrust and so mani care belong. but now hearken straightwai to me,
for i am a messeng to thee from zeu, who though he be afar yet hath
great care for thee and piti. he biddeth thee call to arm the
flow-hair achaian with all speed, for that now thou mayest take
the wide-wai citi of the trojan. for the immort that dwell in the
hall of olympu ar no longer divid in counsel, sinc hera hath
turn the mind of all by her beseech, and over the trojan sorrow
hang by the will of zeu. but do thou keep thi in thy heart, not let
forget come upon thee when honei sleep shall leav thee."

so spake the dream, and depart and left him there, deem in hi mind
thing that were not to be fulfil. for inde he thought to take
priam's citi that veri dai; fond man, in that he knew not the plan that
zeu had in mind, who wa will to bring yet more grief and wail on
trojan alik and danaan throughout the cours of stubborn fight. then
woke he from sleep, and the heavenli voic wa in hi ear. so he rose
up sit, and don hi soft tunic, fair and bright, and cast around
him hi great cloak, and beneath hi glister feet he bound hi fair
sandal, and over hi shoulder cast hi silver-stud sword, and
grasp hi sire' sceptr, imperish for ever, wherewith he took hi
wai amid the mail-clad achaian' ship.

now went the goddess dawn to high olympu, foretel daylight to zeu
and all the immort; and the king bade the clear-voic herald summon
to the assembl the flow-hair achaian. so did those summon, and
these gather with speed.

but first the council of the great-heart elder met besid the ship of
king nestor the pylo-born. and he that had assembl them frame hi
cun counsel: "hearken, my friend. a dream from heaven came to me in
my sleep through the ambrosi night, and chiefli to goodli nestor wa
veri like in shape and bulk and statur. and it stood over my head and
charg me sai: 'sleepest thou, son of wise atreu tamer of hors?
to sleep all night through beseemeth not on that is a counsellor, to
whom peopl ar entrust and so mani care belong. but now hearken
straightwai to me, for i am a messeng to thee from zeu, who though he
be afar yet hath great care for thee and piti. he biddeth thee call to
arm the flow-hair achaian with all speed, for that now thou
mayest take the wide-wai citi of the trojan. for the immort that
dwell in the palac of olympu ar no longer divid in counsel, sinc
hera hath turn the mind of all by her beseech, and over the
trojan sorrow hang by the will of zeu. but do thou keep thi in thy
heart.' so spake the dream and wa flown awai, and sweet sleep left me.
so come, let us now call to arm as we mai the son of the achaian. but
first i will speak to make trial of them as is fit, and bid them
flee with their bench ship; onli do ye from thi side and from that
speak to hold them back."

so spake he and sate him down; and there stood up among them nestor, who
wa king of sandi pylo. he of good intent made harangu to them and
said: "my friend, captain and ruler of the argiv, had ani other of
the achaian told us thi dream we might deem it a fals thing, and
rather turn awai therefrom; but now he hath seen it who of all achaian
avoweth himself far greatest. so come, let us call to arm as we mai the
son of the achaian."

so spake he, and led the wai forth from the council, and all the other
sceptr chief rose with him and obei the shepherd of the host; and
the peopl hasten to them. even as when the tribe of throng bee
issu from the hollow rock, ever in fresh process, and fly cluster
among the flower of spring, and some on thi hand and some on that fly
thick; even so from ship and hut befor the low beach march forth
their mani tribe by compani to the place of assembl. and in their
midst blaze forth rumour, messeng of zeu, urg them to go; and so
thei gather. and the place of assemblag wa in an uproar, and the
earth echo again as the host sate them down, and there wa turmoil.
nine herald restrain them with shout, if perchanc thei might
refrain from clamour, and hearken to their king, the fosterl of
zeu. and hardli at the last would the peopl sit, and keep them to
their bench and ceas from nois. then stood up lord agamemnon bear
hi sceptr, that hephaisto had wrought curious. hephaisto gave it
to king zeu son of krono, and then zeu gave it to the messeng-god
the slayer of argu [or, possibl, "the swift-appear"]; and king
herm gave it to pelop the chariot, and pelop again gave it to
atreu shepherd of the host. and atreu dy left it to thyest rich
in flock, and thyest in hi turn left it to agamemnon to bear, that
over mani island and all argo he should be lord. thereon he lean and
spake hi sai to the argiv:

"my friend, danaan warrior, men of ar' compani, zeu krono' son
hath bound me with might in grievou blind of soul; hard of heart is
he, for that erewhil he promis me and pledg hi nod that not till i
had wast well-wall ilio should i return; but now see i that he
plan a cruel wile and biddeth me return to argo dishonour, with
the loss of mani of my folk. so meseem it pleaseth most mighti zeu,
who hath laid low the head of mani a citi, yea, and shall lai low; for
hi is highest power. shame is thi even for them that come after to
hear; how so goodli and great a folk of the achaian thu vainli war
a bootless war, and fought scantier enemi, and no end thereof is yet
seen. for if perchanc we were mind, both achaian and trojan, to
swear a solemn truce, and to number ourselv, and if the trojan should
gather togeth all that have their dwell in the citi, and we
achaian should marshal ourselv by ten, and everi compani choos a
trojan to pour their wine, then would mani ten lack a cup-bearer: so
much, i sai, do the son of the achaian outnumb the trojan that
dwell within the citi. but alli from mani citi, even warrior that
wield the spear, ar therein, and thei hinder me perforc, and for all
my will suffer me not to wast the popul citadel of ilio. alreadi
have nine year of great zeu pass awai, and our ship' timber have
rot and the tackl is loos; while there our wive and littl
children sit in our hall await us; yet is our task utterli
unaccomplish wherefor we came hither. so come, even as i bid let us
all obei. let us flee with our ship to our dear nativ land; for now
shall we never take wide-wai troi."

so spake he, and stir the spirit in the breast of all throughout the
multitud, as mani as had not heard the council. and the assembl swai
like high sea-wave of the icarian main that east wind and south wind
rais, rush upon them from the cloud of father zeu; and even as
when the west wind cometh to stir a deep cornfield with violent blast,
and the ear bow down, so wa all the assembl stir, and thei with
shout hast toward the ship; and the dust from beneath their feet
rose and stood on high. and thei bade each man hi neighbor to seiz the
ship and drag them into the bright salt sea, and clear out the
launch-wai, and the nois went up to heaven of their hurri
homeward; and thei began to take the prop from beneath the ship.

then would the argiv have accomplish their return against the will
of fate, but that hera spake a word to athen: "out on it, daughter of
aegi-bear zeu, unweari maiden! shall the argiv thu inde flee
homeward to their dear nativ land over the sea's broad back? but thei
would leav to priam and the trojan their boast, even helen of argo,
for whose sake mani an achaian hath perish in troi, far awai from hi
dear nativ land. but go thou now amid the host of the mail-clad
achaian; with thy gentl word refrain thou everi man, neither suffer
them to draw their curv ship down to the salt sea."

so spake she, and the bright-ei goddess athen disregard not; but
went dart down from the peak of olympu, and came with speed to the
fleet ship of the achaian. there found she odysseu stand, peer of
zeu in counsel, neither laid he ani hand upon hi deck black ship,
becaus grief had enter into hi heart and soul. and bright-ei
athen stood by him and said: "heaven-sprung son of laert, odysseu of
mani devic, will ye inde fling yourselv upon your bench ship to
flee homeward to your dear nativ land? but ye would leav to priam and
the trojan their boast, even helen of argo, for whose sake mani an
achaian hath perish in troi, far from hi dear nativ land. but go
thou now amid the host of the achaian, and tarri not; and with gentl
word refrain everi man, neither suffer them to draw their curv ship
down to the salt sea."

so said she, and he knew the voic of the goddess speak to him, and
set him to run, and cast awai hi mantl, the which hi herald gather
up, even euryb of ithaca, that wait on him. and himself he went to
meet agamemnon son of atreu, and at hi hand receiv the sceptr of
hi sire, imperish for ever, wherewith he took hi wai amid the
ship of the mail-clad achaian.

whenev he found on that wa a captain and a man of mark, he stood by
hi side, and refrain him with gentl word: "good sir, it is not
seemli to affright thee like a coward, but do thou sit thyself and make
all thy folk sit down. for thou knowest not yet clearli what is the
purpos of atreu' son; now is he but make trial, and soon he will
afflict the son of the achaian. and heard we not all of us what he
spake in the council? bewar lest in hi anger he evilli entreat the
son of the achaian. for proud is the soul of heaven-foster king;
becaus their honour is of zeu, and the god of counsel loveth them."

but whatev man of the peopl he saw and found him shout, him he
drave with hi sceptr and chode him with loud word: "good sir, sit
still and hearken to the word of other that ar thy better; but thou
art no warrior, and a weakl, never reckon whether in battl or in
council. in no wise can we achaian all be king here. a multitud of
master is no good thing; let there be on master, on king, to whom the
son of crook-counsel krono hath grant it, [even the sceptr and
judgment, that he mai rule among you"].

so masterfulli rang he the host; and thei hast back to the assembl
from ship and hut, with nois as when a wave of loud-sound sea
roareth on the long beach and the main resoundeth.

now all the rest sat down and kept their place upon the bench, onli
thersit still chatter on, the uncontrol speech, whose mind wa
full of word mani and disorderli, wherewith to strive against the
chief idli and in no good order, but even as he deem that he should
make the argiv laugh. and he wa ill-favor beyond all men that came
to ilio. bandi-leg wa he, and lame of on foot, and hi two
shoulder round, arch down upon hi chest; and over them hi head
wa warp, and a scanti stubbl sprout on it. hate wa he to
achil abov all and to odysseu, for them he wa wont to revil. but
now with shrill shout he pour forth hi upbraid upon goodli
agamemnon. with him the achaian were sore vex and had indign in
their soul. but he with loud shout spake and revil agamemnon:
"atreid, for what art thou now ill content and lack? sure thy
hut ar full of bronz and mani women ar in thei hut, the chosen
spoil that we achaian give thee first of all, whene'er we take a town.
can it be that thou yet wantest gold as well, such as some on of the
hors-tame trojan mai bring from ilio to ransom hi son, whom i
perchanc or some other achaian have led captiv; or els some young
girl, to know in love, whom thou mayest keep apart to thyself? but it is
not seemli for on that is their captain to bring the son of the
achaian to ill. soft fool, base thing of shame, ye women of achaia
and men no more, let us depart home with our ship, and leav thi
fellow here in troi-land to gorg him with meed of honour, that he mai
see whether our aid avail him aught or no; even he that hath now done
dishonour to achil, a far better man than he; for he hath taken awai
hi meed of honour and keepeth it by hi own violent deed. of a veri
sureti is there no wrath at all in achil' mind, but he is slack; els
thi despit, thou son of atreu, were thy last."

so spake thersit, revil agamemnon shepherd of the host. but goodli
odysseu came straight to hi side, and look sternli at him with hard
word rebuk him: "thersit, reckless in word, shrill orat though
thou art, refrain thyself, nor aim to strive singli against king. for i
deem that no mortal is baser than thou of all that with the son of
atreu came befor ilio. therefor were it well that thou shouldest not
have king in thy mouth as thou talkest, and utter revil against
them and be on the watch for departur. we know not yet clearli how
these thing shall be, whether we son of the achaian shall return for
good or ill. therefor now dost thou revil continu agamemnon son of
atreu, shepherd of the host, becaus the danaan warrior give him mani
gift, and so thou talkest tauntingli. but i will tell thee plain, and
that i sai shall even be brought to pass: if i find thee again rave as
now thou art, then mai odysseu' head no longer abid upon hi
shoulder, nor mai i ani more be call father of telemacho, if i take
thee not and strip from thee thy garment, thy mantl and tunic that
cover thy naked, and for thyself send thee weep to the fleet
ship, and beat thee out of the assembl with shame blow."

so spake he, and with hi staff smote hi back and shoulder: and he
bow down and a big tear fell from him, and a bloodi weal stood up from
hi back beneath the golden sceptr. then he sat down and wa amaz,
and in pain with helpless look wipe awai the tear. but the rest, though
thei were sotti, laugh lightli at him, and thu would on speak
look at anoth stand by: "go to, of a truth odysseu hath wrought
good deed without number er now, stand foremost in wise counsel
and set battl in arrai, but now is thi thing the best by far that
he hath wrought among the argiv, to wit, that he hath stai thi
prate railer from hi harangu. never again, forsooth, will hi proud
soul henceforth bid him revil the king with slander word."

so said the common sort; but up rose odysseu waster of citi, with
sceptr in hi hand. and by hi side bright-ei athen in the like
of a herald bade the multitud keep silenc, that the son of the
achaian, both the nearest and the farthest, might hear hi word
togeth and give heed to hi counsel. he of good intent made harangu
to them and said: "atreid, now sure ar the achaian for make
thee, o king, most despis among all mortal men, nor will thei fulfil
the promis that thei pledg thee when thei still were march hither
from hors-pastur argo; that thou shouldest not return till thou
hadst laid well-wall ilio wast. for like young children or widow
women do thei wail each to the other of return home. yea, here is
toil to make a man depart dishearten. for he that stayeth awai but on
singl month far from hi wife in hi bench ship fretteth himself when
winter storm and the furiou sea imprison him; but for us, the ninth
year of our stai here is upon us in it cours. therefor do i not
marvel that the achaian should fret besid their beak ship; yet
nevertheless is it shame to wait long and to depart empti. be of good
heart, my friend, and wait a while, until we learn whether kalcha be a
true prophet or no. for thi thing verili we know well in our heart,
and ye all ar wit thereof, even as mani as the fate of death
have not born awai. it wa as it were but yesterdai or the dai befor
that the achaian' ship were gather in auli, freight with troubl
for priam and the trojan; and we round about a spring were offer on
the holi altar unblemish hecatomb to the immort, beneath a fair
plane-tree whenc flow bright water, when there wa seen a great
portent: a snake blood-red on the back, terribl, whom the god of
olympu himself had sent forth to the light of dai, sprang from beneath
the altar and dart to the plane-tree. now there were there the brood
of a sparrow, tender littl on, upon the topmost branch, nestl
beneath the leav; eight were thei and the mother of the littl on
wa the ninth, and the snake swallow these cheep pitifulli. and the
mother flutter around wail for her dear littl on; but he coil
himself and caught her by the wing as she scream about him. now when
he had swallow the sparrow's littl on and the mother with them, the
god who reveal him made of him a sign; for the son of
crook-counsel krono turn him to stone, and we stood by and
marvel to see what wa done. so when the dread portent brake in upon
the hecatomb of the god, then did kalcha forthwith prophesi, and
said: 'why hold ye your peac, ye flow-hair achaian? to us hath
zeu the counsellor shown thi great sign, late come, of late
fulfil, the fame whereof shall never perish. even as he swallow
the sparrow's littl on and herself, the eight wherewith the mother
that bare the littl on wa the ninth, so shall we war there so mani
year, but in the tenth year shall we take the wide-wai citi.' so
spake the seer; and now ar all these thing be fulfil. so come,
abid ye all, ye well-greav achaian, even where ye ar, until we have
taken the great citi of priam."

so spake he, and the argiv shout aloud, and all round the ship
echo terribl to the voic of the achaian as thei prais the sai
of god-like odysseu. and then spake among them knightli nestor of
gerenia: "out on it; in veri truth ye hold assembl like silli boi that
have no care for deed of war. what shall come of our coven and our
oath? let all counsel be cast into the fire and all devic of
warrior and the pure drink-offer and the right hand of fellowship
wherein we trust. for we ar vainli strive with word nor can we
find ani devic at all, for all our long tarri here. son of atreu,
do thou still, as erst, keep steadfast purpos and lead the argiv amid
the violent frai; and for these, let them perish, the on or two
achaian that take secret counsel--to depart to argo first, befor thei
know whether the promis of aegi-bear zeu be a lie or no. yea, for
i sai that most mighti kronion pledg us hi word that dai when the
argiv embark upon their fleet ship, bear unto the trojan death
and fate; for by hi lightn upon our right he manifest sign of
good. therefor let trojan's wife and paid back hi strive and groan
for helen's sake. but if ani man is overmuch desir to depart homeward,
let him lai hi hand upon hi deck black ship, that befor all men he
mai encount death and fate. but do thou, my king, take good counsel
thyself, and whate'er it be, shall not be cast awai. separ thy
warrior by tribe and by clan, agamemnon, that clan mai give aid to
clan and tribe to tribe. if thou do thu and the achaian hearken to
thee, then wilt thou know who among thy captain and who of the common
sort is a coward, and who too is brave; for thei will fight each after
their sort. so wilt thou know whether it is even by divin command that
thou shalt not take the citi, or by the base of thy warrior and
their ill skill in battl."

and lord agamemnon answer and said to him: "verili hast thou again
outdon the son of the achaian in speech, old man. ah, father zeu and
athen and apollo, would that among the achaian i had ten such
councillor; then would the citi of king priam soon bow beneath our
hand, captiv and wast. but aegi-bear zeu, the son of krono,
hath brought sorrow upon me, in that he casteth my lot amid fruitless
wrangl and strife. for in truth i and achil fought about a
damsel with violent word, and i wa first to be angri; but if we can
onli be at on in council, then will there no more be ani put off
the dai of evil for the trojan, no not for an instant. but now go ye to
your meal that we mai join battl. let each man sharpen well hi spear
and bestow well hi shield, and let him well give hi fleet-foot
steed their meal, and look well to hi chariot on everi side and take
thought for battl, that all dai long we mai contend in hate war. for
of respit shall there interven no, not a whit, onli that the come of
night shall part the furi of warrior. on each man's breast shall the
baldrick of hi cover shield be wet with sweat, and hi hand shall
grow faint about the spear, and each man's hors shall sweat as he
draweth the polish chariot. and whomsoev i perceiv mind to tarri
far from the fight besid the beak ship, for him shall there be no
hope hereaft to escap the dog and bird of prei."

so spake he, and the argiv shout aloud, like to a wave on a steep
shore, when the south wind cometh and stirreth it; even on a jut
rock, that is never left at peac by the wave of all wind that rise
from thi side and from that. and thei did sacrific each man to on of
the everlast god, prai for escap from death and the tumult of
battl. but agamemnon king of men slew a fat bull of five year to most
mighti kronion, and call the elder, the princ of the achaian host,
nestor first and king idomeneu, and then the two aiant and tydeu'
son, and sixthli odysseu peer of zeu in counsel. and menelao of the
loud war-cry came to him unbidden, for he knew in hi heart how hi
brother toil. then stood thei around the bull and took the
barlei-meal. and agamemnon made hi prayer in their midst and said:
"zeu, most gloriou, most great, god of the storm-cloud, that dwellest
in the heaven, vouchsaf that the sun set not upon us nor the dark
come near, till i have laid low upon the earth priam's palac smirch
with smoke, and burnt the doorwai thereof with consum fire, and rent
on hector's breast hi doublet cleft with the blade; and about him mai
full mani of hi comrad prone in the dust bite the earth."

so spake he, but not as yet would kronion grant him fulfil; he
accept the sacrific, but made toil to wax increasingli.

now when thei had prai and sprinkl the barlei-meal thei first drew
back the bull's head and cut hi throat and flai him, and cut slice
from the thigh's and wrap them in fat, make a doubl fold, and laid
raw collop thereon. and these thei burnt on cleft wood stript of
leav, and spit the vital and held them over hephaisto' flame. now
when the thigh were burnt and thei had tast the vital, then slice
thei all the rest and pierc it through with spit, and roast it
carefulli and drew all off again. so when thei had rest from the task
and had made readi the banquet, thei feast, nor wa their heart aught
stint of the fair banquet. but when thei had put awai from them the
desir of meat and drink, then did knightli nestor of gerenia open hi
sai to them: "most nobl son of atreu, agamemnon king of men, let us
not ani more hold long convers here, nor for long delai the work that
god putteth in our hand; but come, let the herald of the mail-clad
achaian make proclam to the folk and gather them throughout the
ship; and let us go thu in concert through the wide host of the
achaian, that the speedier we mai arous keen war."

so spake he and agamemnon king of men disregard not. straightwai he
bade the clear-voic herald summon to battl the flow-hair
achaian. so those summon and these gather with all speed. and the
king, the fosterl of zeu that were about atreu' son, eagerli
marshal them, and bright-ei athen in the midst, bear the holi
aegi that knoweth neither ag nor death, whereon wave an hundr
tassel of pure gold, all deftli woven and each on an hundr oxen
worth. therewith she pass dazzl through the achaian folk, urg
them forth; and in everi man's heart she rous strength to battl
without ceas and to fight. so wa war made sweeter to them than to
depart in their hollow ship to their dear nativ land. even as ravag
fire kindleth a boundless forest on a mountain's peak, and the blaze is
seen from afar, even so as thei march went the dazzl gleam from the
innumer bronz through the sky even unto the heaven.

and as the mani tribe of feather bird, wild gees or crane or
long-neck swan, on the asian mead by kaystrio' stream, fly hither
and thither joi in their plumag, and with loud cri settl ever
onward, and the mead resound; even so pour forth the mani tribe of
warrior from ship and hut into the skamandrian plain. and the earth
echo terribl beneath the tread of men and hors. so stood thei in
the floweri skamandrian plain, unnumb as ar leav and flower in
their season. even as the mani tribe of thick fli that hover about a
herdsman's stead in the spring season, when milk drencheth the pail,
even in like number stood the flow-hair achaian upon the plain in
face of the trojan, eager to rend them asund. and even as the
goatherd easili divid the rang flock of goat when thei mingl in
the pastur, so did their captain marshal them on thi side and that,
to enter into the frai, and in their midst lord agamemnon, hi head and
ey like unto zeu whose joi is in the thunder, and hi waist like unto
ar and hi breast unto poseidon. even as a bull standeth out far
foremost amid the herd, for hi is pre-emin amid the pastur kine,
even such did zeu make atreid on that dai, pre-emin among mani and
chief amid hero.

tell me now, ye muse that dwell in the mansion of olympu--see that
ye ar goddess and ar at hand and know all thing, but we hear onli a
rumour and know not anyth--who were the captain of the danaan and
their lord. but the common sort could i not number nor name, nai, not
if ten tongu were mine and ten mouth, and a voic unweari, and my
heart of bronz within me, did not the muse of olympu, daughter of
aegi-bear zeu, put into my mind all that came to ilio. so will i
tell the captain of the ship and all the ship in order.

of the boiotian peneleo and leito were captain, and arkesilao and
prothoenor and klonio; these were thei that dwelt in hyria and rocki
auli and schoino and skolo and eteono full of ridg, thespeia and
graia and mykalesso with wide lawn; and that dwelt about harma and
eiles and erythrai, and thei that possess eleon and peteon and
hyle, okalea and the stablish fortress of medeon, kopai and eutresi
and thisb haunt of dove; and thei of koroneia and grassi haliarto,
and that possess plataia and that dwelt in glisa, and that possess
the stablish fortress of lesser thebe and holi onchesto, poseidon's
bright grove; and that possess arn rich in vineyard, and mideia and
sacr nisa and anthedon on the furthest border. of these there came
fifti ship, and in each on embark young men of the boiotian an
hundr and twenti. and thei that dwelt in aspledon and orchomeno of
the minyai were led of askalapho and ialmeno, son of ar, whom
astyoch conceiv of the mighti god in the palac of aktor son of
azeu, have enter her upper chamber, a state maiden; for mighti
ar lai with her privili. and with them sail thirti hollow ship.

and the phokian were led of schedio and epistropho, son of
great-heart iphito son of naubolo; these were thei that possess
kyparisso and rocki pytho and sacr krisa and dauli and panopeu, and
thei that dwelt about anemoreia and hyampoli, yea, and thei that live
by the goodli river kephiso and possess lilaia by kephiso' spring.
and with them follow thirti black ship. so thei marshal the rank
of the phokian dilig, and had their station hard by the boiotian
on the left.

and of the lokrian the fleet son of oileu wa captain, aia the less,
that wa not so great as wa the telamonian aia but far less. small wa
he, with linen corslet, but with the spear he far outdid all the
hellen and achaian. these were thei that dwelt in kyno and opu and
kalliaro and bessa and skarph and love augeiai and tarph and
thronion, about the stream of boagrio. and with aia follow forti
black ship of the lokrian that dwell over against holi euboia.

and the abant breath furi, thei that possess euboia and chalki
and eiretria and histiaia rich in vine, and kerintho by the sea and
the steep fortress of dio and thei that possess karyto, and thei
that dwelt in styra, all these again were led of elephenor of the stock
of ar, even the son of chalkodon, and captain of the proud abant.
and with him follow the fleet abant with hair flow behind,
spearmen eager with ashen shaft outstretch to tear the corslet on
the breast of the foe. and with him forti black ship follow.

and thei that possess the goodli citadel of athen, the domain of
erechtheu the high-heart, whom erst athen daughter of zeu foster
when earth, the grain-giver, brought him to birth;--and she gave him a
rest-place in athen in her own rich sanctuari; and there the son of
the athenian worship him with bull and ram as the year turn in their
cours--these again were led of menestheu son of peteo. and there wa
no man upon the face of earth that wa like him for the marshal of
horsemen and warrior that bear the shield. onli nestor rival him,
for he wa the elder by birth. and with him rival him, for he wa the
elder by birth. and with him fifti black ship follow.

and aia led twelv ship from salami, [and brought them and set them
where the battalion of the athenian stood.]

and thei that possess argo and tiryn of the great wall, hermion
and asin that enfold the deep gulf, troizen and eionai and epidauro
full of vine, and the youth of the achaian that possess aigina and
mase, these were led of diomed of the loud war-cari and sthenelo,
dear son of famou kapaneu. and the third with them came euryalo, a
godlik warrior, the son of king mekisteu son of talao. but diomed
of the loud war-cry wa lord over all. and with them eighti black ship
follow.

and of them that possess the stablish fortress of myken and wealthi
corinth and stablish kleonai, and dwelt in orneiai and love
araithyrea and sikyon, wherein adresto wa king at the first; and of
them that possess hyperesi and steep gonoessa and pellen, and dwelt
about aigion and through all the coast-land and about broad helik, of
them did lord agamemnon son of atreu lead an hundr ship. with him
follow most and goodliest folk by far; and in their midst himself wa
clad in flash bronz, all gloriou, and wa pre-emin amid all
warrior, becaus he wa goodliest and led folk far greatest in number.

and of them that possess lakedaimon ly low amid the rift hill,
and phari and sparta and mess, the haunt of dove, and dwelt in
bryseiai and love augeiai, and of them too that possess amyklai and
the sea-coast fortress of helo, and that possess laa and dwelt about
oitylo, of these wa the king's brother leader, even menelao of the
loud war-cry, leader of sixti ship, and these were arrai apart. and
himself march among them confid in hi zeal, urg hi men to
battl: and hi heart most of all wa set to take vengeanc for hi
strive and groan for helen's sake [or, "for helen's search of
heart and groan."].

and of them that dwelt in pylo and love aren and thryon the
ford-place of alpheio, and in establish aipi, and were inhabit
of kyparissei and amphigeneia and pteleo and helo and dorion--where
the muse met thamyri the thracian, and made an end of hi sing, as
he wa fare from oichalia, from euryto the oichalian; for he aver
with boast that he would conquer, even did the muse themselv sing
against him, the daughter of aegi-bear zeu; but thei in their
anger maim him, moreov thei took from him the high gift of song and
made him to forget hi harp--of all these wa knightli nestor of
gerenia leader, and with him sail nineti hollow ship.

and of them that possess arkadia beneath the steep mountain of
kyllen, besid the tomb of aipyto, where ar warrior that fight hand
to hand; and of them that dwelt in pheneo and orchomeno abound in
flock, and rhipe and strati and windi enisp, and that possess tegea
and love mantineia, and possess stymphelo and dwelt in parhasi, of
these wa ankaio' son lord agapenor leader, even of sixti ship; and in
each ship embark mani arkadian warrior skill in fight. for
agamemnon king of men himself gave them bench ship wherewith to cross
the wine-dark sea, even he the son of atreu; for matter of seafar
concern them not.

and thei too that inhabit boupras and goodli eli, so much thereof
as hyrmin and myrsino upon the border and the olenian rock and
aleis bound between them, of these men there were four captain, and
ten swift ship follow each on, and mani epeian embark thereon. so
some were led of amphimacho and thalpio, of the lineag of aktor, son
on of kteato and on of euryto; and of some wa stalwart dior
captain, son of amarynk; and of the fourth compani godlik polyxeino
wa captain, son of king agasthen augeia' son.

and them of doulichion and the holi echinean isl that stand beyond the
sea over against eli, even these did mege lead, the peer of ar,
phyleid to wit, for he wa begotten of knightli phyleu dear to zeu,
him that erst chang hi habit to doulichion for anger against hi
father. and with him follow forti black ship.

and odysseu led the great-heart kephallenian, them that possess
ithaka and neriton with quiver leafag, and dwelt in krokyleia and
rug aigilip, and them that possess zakyntho and that dwelt in
samo, and possess the mainland and dwelt in the part over against
the isl. them did odysseu lead, the peer of zeu in counsel, and with
him follow twelv ship with vermillion prow.

and of the aitolian thoa wa captain, the son of andraimon, even of
them that dwelt in pleuron and oleno and pylen, and chalki on the
sea-shore and rocki kalydon. for the son of great-heart oineu were
no more, neither did he still live, and golden-hair meleagro wa
dead, to whose hand all had been commit, for him to be king of the
aitolian. and with thoa there follow forti black ship.

and of the cretan idomeneu the famou spearman wa leader, even of
them that possess knoso and gorti of the great wall, lykto and
mileto and chalki lykasto and phaisto and rhytion, stablish citi
all; and of all other that dwelt in crete of the hundr citi. of
these men wa idomeneu the famou spearman leader, and merion peer of
the man-slai war-god. with these follow eighti black ship.

and tlepolemmo, herakl' son goodli and tall, led from rhode nine
ship of the lordli rhodian, that dwelt in rhode in threefold
order, in lindo and ialyso and chalki kameiro. these were led of
tlepolemo the famou spearman, that wa born to great herakl by
astyocheia, whom he had brought awai from ephyr by the river selleei,
when he laid wast mani citi of strong men, fosterl of zeu. now
when tlepolemo had grown to manhood within the strong palac wall,
anon he slew hi own father's dear uncl, an old man now, likymnio of
the stock of ar. then with speed built he ship and gather much folk
togeth, and went flee across the deep, becaus the other son and
grandson of great herakl threaten him. so he came to rhode a
wander, endur hardship, and hi folk settl by kinship in three
tribe, and were love of zeu that is king among god and men; and
kronion pour upon them exceed great wealth.

nireu, moreov, led three trim ship from syme, nireu son of aglaia
and king charopo, nireu the most beauteou man that came up under
ilio of all the danaan, after the nobl son of peleu. howbeit he wa
a weakl, and a scanti host follow him.

and of them that possess nisyro and krapatho and kaso and ko the
citi of eurypylo, and the kalydnian isl, of them pheidippo and
antipho were leader, the two son of king thessalo son of herakl.
with them were arrai thirti hollow ship.

now all moreov that dwelt in the pelasgian argo and inhabit alo
and alop and trachi and possess phthia and hella the home of fair
women, and were call myrmidon and hellen and achaian; of all
these, even fifti ship, achil wa captain. but these took no thought
of noisi war; for there wa no man to arrai them in line of battl. for
fleet-foot goodli achil lai idl amid the ship, wroth for the sake
of a damsel, brisei of the love hair, whom he had won from lyrnesso
and the wall of thebe, and overthrew myne and epistropho, warrior
that bare the spear, son of king eueno selepo' son. for her sake lai
achil sorrow; but soon wa he to aris again.

and of them that possess phylak and floweri pyraso, demet's
sanctuari, and iton mother of flock, and antron by the sea-shore and
pteleo couch in grass, of all these wa warlik protesilao leader
while yet he live; but now er thi the black earth held him fast. hi
wife with mar visag wa left alon in phylak, yea, and hi bridal
chamber half build; for a dardanian warrior slew him as he leapt from
hi ship far first of the achaian. yet neither were hi men leaderless,
though thei sorrow for their leader; for podark of the stock of ar
marshal them, son of phylako' son iphiklo wa he, the lord of mani
flock, own brother of great-heart protesilao, and younger-born than
he: but the other wa alik the elder and the braver, even protesilao,
that mighti man of war. yet did not the host lack at all a leader, onli
thei yearn for the nobl dead. with him follow forti black ship.

and of them that dwelt in pherai by the boibeian mere, in boib and
glaphyr and stablish iolko, of them, even eleven ship, admeto'
dear son wa leader, eumelo whom alkesti, fair among women, bare to
admeto, she that wa most beauteou to look upon of the daughter of
pelia.

and of them that dwelt in methon and thaumaki, and possess meliboia
and rug olizon, of these, even seven ship, wa philoktet leader,
the cun archer; and in each ship sail fifti oarsmen skill to
fight amain with the bow. but their captain lai endur sore pain in
the isl of goodli lemno, where the son of the achaian left him sick
of a grievou wound from a deadli water-snake. there lai he pine; yet
were the argiv soon to bethink them besid their ship of king
philoktet. yet neither were hi men leaderless, onli thei sorrow for
their leader; but medon marshal them, oileu' bastard son, whom rhene
bare to oileu waster of citi.

and of them that possess trikk and terrac ithom and that possess
oichalia citi of euryto the oichalian, of these again asklepio' two
son were leader, the cun leech podaleirio and machaon. and with
them were arrai thirti hollow ship.

and of them that possess ormenio and the fountain of hypereia, and
possess asterion and the white crest of titano, of these wa
eurypylo leader, euaimon's gloriou son; and with him, forti black
ship follow.

and of them that possess argissa and dwelt in gyrtona, orth and
elon and the white citi of olooson, of these wa captain unflinch
polypoit, son of peirithoo that immort zeu begat: and polypoit
did fame hippodameia conceiv of peirithoo on that dai when he took
vengeanc of the shaggi wild folk, and thrust them forth from pelion and
drave them to the aithik. and polypoit rule not alon, but with him
wa leonteu of the stock of ar, son of high-heart korono kaineu'
son. and with them forti black ship follow.

and gouneu from kypho led two-and-twenti ship, and with him follow
the enien and unflinch peraibian that had pitch their home
about wintri dodona, and dwelt on the tilth about love titaresio that
poureth hi fair-flow stream into peneio. yet doth he not mingl
with the silver eddi of peneio, but floweth on over him like unto
oil, see that he is an offspr from the water of styx, the dread
river of the oath.

and the magnet were led of prothoo son of tenthredon, even thei that
dwelt about peneio and pelion with trembl leafag. these did fleet
prothoo lead, and with him forti black ship follow.

so these were the leader of the danaan and their captain. now tell
me, o muse, who among them wa first and foremost, of warrior alik and
hors that follow the son of atreu. of hors thei of phere' son
were far goodliest, those that eumelo drave, swift as bird, like of
coat, like of ag, match to the measur of a level line across
their back. these were rear in peraia by apollo of the silver bow,
two mare carri onward the terror of battl. but of warrior far best
wa the telamonian aia, while the wrath of achil yet endur; for he
wa greatest of all, he and hi hors that bore him, even peleu' nobl
son. but he lai idl among hi seafar ship, in sore wrath against
agamemnon atreu' son, shepherd of the host; and hi folk along the
sea-shore sport with quoit and with cast of javelin and archeri;
and the hors each besid hi own chariot stood idl, champ clover
and parslei of the marsh, and their lord' chariot lai well cover up
within the hut, while the men yearn for their warrior chief, and
wander hither and thither through the camp and fought not.

so march thei then as though all the land were consum with fire;
and the earth groan beneath them as at the wrath of zeu whose joi is
in the thunder, when he lasheth the earth about typhoeu in the countri
of the arimoi, where men sai is typhoeu' couch. even so groan the
earth aloud at their tread as thei went: and with speed advanc thei
across the plain.

now fleet iri the wind-foot went to the trojan, a messeng from
aegi-bear zeu, with a grievou messag. these were hold assembl
at priam's gate, be gather all togeth both young men and old. and
fleet-foot iri stood hard by and spake to them; and she made her
voic like to the voic of polit son of priam, who wa the sentinel of
the trojan and wa wont to sit trust in hi fleet upon the
barrow of aisyet of old, and on the top thereof wait the salli of
the achaian forth from their ship. even in hi like did
fleet-foot iri speak to priam: "old man, word beyond number ar
still pleasant to thee as erst in the dai of peac; but war without
respit is upon us. of a truth have i veri oft er now enter into
battl of the warrior, yet have i never seen so goodli a host and so
great; for in the veri like of the leav of the forest or the sand
of the sea ar thei march along the plain to fight against the citi.
but hector, thee do i charg beyond all to do even as i shall sai.
see that the alli ar veri mani throughout priam's great citi, and
divers men, be scatter abroad, have divers tongu; therefor let
each on give the word to those whose chieftain he is, and them let him
lead forth and have the order of hi countrymen."

so spake she, and hector fail not to know the voic of the goddess,
and straightwai dismiss the assembl, and thei rush to arm. and the
gate were thrown open wide, and the host issu forth, footmen and
horsemen, and mighti din aros.

now there is befor the citi a certain steep mound apart in the plain,
with a clear wai about it on thi side and on that; and men inde call
thi "batieia," but the immort call it "the tomb of lith myrin."
there did the trojan and their alli divid their compani.

amid the trojan great hector of the glanc helm wa leader, the son
of priam; with him the greatest host by far and the goodliest were
arrai, eager warrior of the spear.

but the dardanian were led of the princ son of anchis, aineia,
whom bright aphrodit conceiv to anchis amid the spur of ida, a
goddess wed to a mortal. neither wa he alon; with him were
antenor's two son, archelocho and akama, well skill in all the wai
of war.

and of them that dwelt in zeleia beneath the nethermost foot of ida, the
men of substanc that drink the dark water of aisepo, even the troe;
of these lykaon's gloriou son wa leader, pandaro, to whom apollo
himself gave the bow.

and of them that possess adresteia and the land of apaiso and
possess pityeia and the steep hill of tereia, of these adresto wa
captain, and amphio of the linen corslet, the two son of merop of
perkot, that beyond all men knew soothsai, and would have hinder
hi children march to murder war. but thei gave him no heed, for
the fate of black death led them on.

and thei that dwelt about perkot and praktio and possess sesto and
abydo and bright arisb, these were led of hyrtako' son asio, a
princ of men, asio son of hyrtako, whom hi tall sorrel steed
brought from arisb, from the river selleei.

and hippothoo led the tribe of the pelasgian that fight with spear,
them that inhabit deep-soil larisa. these were led of hippothoo and
pylaio of the stock of ar, twain son of pelasgian letho son of
teutamo.

and the thracian were led of akama and hero peiroo, even all thei
that the strong stream of hellespont shutteth in. and euphemo wa
captain of the kikonian spearmen, the son of troizeno keo' son,
fosterl of zeu.

but pyraichm led the paionian with curv bow, from far awai in
amydon, from the broad stream of axio, axio whose water is the fairest
that floweth over the face of the earth.

and pylaimen of rug heart led the paphlagonian from the land of
the eneti, whenc is the breed of wild mule. thi folk were thei that
possess kytoro and dwelt about sesamon, and inhabit their fame
dwell round the river parthenio and kromna and aigialo and lofti
erythini.

and the alizon were led of odio and epistropho, from far awai in
alyb, where is the birthplac of silver.

and the mysian were led of chromi and ennomo the augur, yet with all
hi auguri ward he not black fate from him, but wa vanguish by the
hand of fleet-foot aiakid in the river, when he made havoc of the
trojan there and of the rest.

and phorki and godlik askanio led the phrygian from far askania, and
these were eager to fight in the battl-throng.

and the maionian were command of mesthl and antipho, talaimen'
two son, whose mother wa the gygaian mere. so these led the maionian,
whose birthplac wa under tmolo.

but nast led the karian, uncouth of speech, that possess mileto
and the mountain of phthire, of leafag numberless, and the stream of
maiandro and the steep crest of mykal. these were led of amphimacho
and nast: nast and amphimacho the gloriou children of nomion. and
he came, forsooth, to battl with golden attir like a girl--fond man:
that held not back in ani wise grievou destruct, but he wa
vanguish by the hand of fleet-foot aiakid in the river, and
wise-heart achil carri awai hi gold.

and sarpedon and blameless glauko led the lykian from far awai in
lykia by eddi xantho.



book iii.

    how menelao and pari fought in singl combat; and
    aphrodit rescu pari. and how helen and priam beheld the
    achaian host from the wall of troi.

now when thei were arrai, each compani with their captain, the
trojan march with clamour and with shout like unto bird, even as
when there goeth up befor heaven a clamour of crane which flee from
the come of winter and sudden rain, and fly with clamour toward the
stream of ocean, bear slaughter and fate to the pigmi men, and in
earli morn offer cruel battl. but on the other side march the
achaian in silenc breath courag, eager at heart to give succour
man to man.

even as when the south wind sheddeth mist over the crest of a mountain,
mist unwelcom to the shepherd, but to the robber better than night,
and a man can see no further than he casteth a stone; even so thick
aros the gather dust-cloud at their tread as thei went; and
with all speed thei advanc across the plain.

so when thei were now come nigh in onset on each other, godlik
alexandro plai champion to the trojan, wear upon hi shoulder
panther-skin and curv bow and sword; and he brandish two
bronz-head spear and challeng all the chieftain of the argiv to
fight him man to man in deadli combat. but when menelao dear to ar
mark him come in the forefront of the multitud with long stride,
then even as a lion is glad when he lighteth upon a great carcas, a
horn stag, or a wild goat that he hath found, be an hunger; and
so he devoureth it amain, even though the fleet hound and lusti youth
set upon him; even thu wa menelao glad when hi ey beheld godlik
alexandro; for he thought to take vengeanc upon the sinner. so
straightwai he leap in hi armour from hi chariot to the ground.

but when godlik alexandro mark him appear amid the champion, hi
heart wa smitten, and he shrank back into the host of hi comrad,
avoid death. and even as a man that hath seen a serpent in a mountain
glade starteth backward and trembl seizeth hi feet beneath him,
and he retreateth back again, and pale hath hold of hi cheek, even
so did godlik alexandro for fear of atreu' son shrink back into the
throng of lordli trojan. but hector beheld and upbraid him with
scorn word: "ill pari, most fair in semblanc, thou deceiv
woman-mad, would thou hadst been unborn and di unw. yea, that were
my desir, and it were far better than thu to be our shame and look
at askanc of all men. i ween that the flow-hair achaian laugh,
deem that a princ is our champion onli becaus a goodli favour is
hi; but in hi heart is there no strength nor ani courag. art thou
inde such an on that in thy seafar ship thou didst sail over the
deep with the compani of thy trusti comrad, and in convers with
stranger didst bring back a fair woman from a far countri, on that wa
by marriag daughter to warrior that bear the spear, that she might be
a sore mischief to thei father and citi and all the realm, but to our
foe a rejoic, and to thyself a hang of the head? and canst thou
not inde abid menelao dear to ar? thou mightest see what sort of
warrior is he whose love wife thou hast. thy lyre will not avail thee
nor the gift of aphrodit, those thy lock and fair favour, when thou
grovellest in the dust. but the trojan ar veri coward: els er thi
hadst thou don a robe of stone [i.e., been stone by the peopl] for
all the ill thou hast wrought."

and godlik alexandro made answer to him again: "hector, sinc in
measur thou chidest me and not beyond measur--thei heart is ever keen,
even as an ax that pierceth a beam at the hand of a man that shapeth a
ship's timber with skill, and therebi is the man's blow strengthen;
even such is thy heart undaunt in thy breast. cast not in my teeth the
love gift of golden aphrodit; not to be flung asid ar the god'
gloriou gift that of their own good will thei give; for by hi desir
can no man win them. but now if thou wilt have me do battl and fight,
make the other trojan sit down and all the achaian, and set ye me in
the midst, and menelao dear to ar, to fight for helen and all her
wealth. and whichsoev shall vanquish and gain the upper hand, let him
take all the wealth aright, and the woman, and bear them home. and let
the rest pledg friendship and sure oath; so mai ye dwell in
deep-soil troi, and let them depart to argo pastur-land of hors,
and achaia home of fair women."

so spake he, and hector rejoic greatli to hear hi sai, and went
into the midst and restrain the battalion of the trojan, with hi
spear grasp by the middl; and thei all sate them down. but the
flow-hair achaian kept shoot at him, aim with arrow and
cast stone. but agamemnon king of men cri aloud: "refrain, ye
argiv; shoot not, ye son of the achaian; for hector of the glanc
helm hath set himself to sai somewhat."

so spake he, and thei refrain from battl and made silenc speedili.
and hector spake between the two host, "hear of me, trojan and
well-greav achaian, the sai of alexandro, for whose sake strife
hath come about. he biddeth the other trojan and all the achaian to
lai down their goodli armour on the bounteou earth, and himself in the
midst and menelao dear to ar to fight alon for helen and all her
wealth. and whichsoev shall vanquish and gain the upper hand, let him
take all the wealth aright, and the woman, and bear them home; but let
all of us pledg friendship and sure oath."

so spake he, and thei all kept silenc and were still. then in their
midst spake menelao of the loud war-cry: "hearken ye now to me, too;
for into my heart most of all is grief enter; and i deem that the
part of argiv and trojan hath come at last; see ye have endur
mani ill becaus of my quarrel and the first sin of alexandro. and for
whichsoev of us death and fate ar prepar, let him lie dead: and be
ye all part with speed. bring ye two lamb, on white ram and on
black ew, for earth and sun; and let us bring on for zeu. and call
hither great priam, that he mai pledg the oath himself, see he hath
son that ar overween and faithless, lest ani by transgress do
violenc to the oath of zeu; for young men's heart ar ever lift up.
but wheresoev an old man entereth in, he looketh both befor and
after, wherebi the best issu shall come for either side."

so spake he, and achaian and trojan were glad, deem that thei
should have rest from grievou war. so thei refrain their chariot to
the rank, and themselv alight and dof their arm. and these thei
laid upon the earth each close to each, and there wa but small space
between. and hector sent two herald to the citi will all speed, to
bring the lamb, and to call priam. and lord agamemnon sent forth
talthybio to go to the hollow ship, and bade him bring a ram; and he
wa not disobedi to nobl agamemnon.

now iri went with a messag to white-arm helen in the like of her
husband's sister, the spous of antenor's son, even her that lord
helikaon antenor's son had to wife, laodik fairest favour of priam's
daughter. and in the hall she found helen weav a great purpl web of
doubl fold, and embroid thereon mani battl of hors-tame
trojan and mail-clad achaian, that thei had endur for her sake at
the hand of ar. so fleet-foot iri stood by her side and said:
"come hither, dear sister, that thou mayest see the wondrou do of
hors-tame trojan and mail-clad achaian. thei that erst wage
tear war upon each other in the plain, eager for deadli battl, even
thei sit now in silenc, and the tall spear ar plant by their side.
but alexandro and menelao dear to ar will fight with their tall
spear for thee; and thou wilt be declar the dear wife of him that
conquereth."

so spake the goddess, and put into her heart sweet long for her
former husband and her citi and parent.

forthwith she veil her face in shine linen, and hasten from her
chamber, let fall a round tear; not unattend, for there follow
with her two handmaiden, aithr daughter of pittheu and ox-ei
klymen. then came she straightwai to the place of the skaian gate. and
thei that were with priam and panthoo and thymoit and lampo and
klytio and hiketaon of the stock of ar, oukalegon withal and antenor,
twain sage, be elder of the peopl, sat at the skaian gate. these
had now ceas from battl for old ag, yet were thei right good
orat, like grasshopp that in a forest sit upon a tree and utter
their lili-like [suppos to mean "delic" or "tender"] voic; even so
sat the elder of the trojan upon the tower. now when thei saw helen
come to the tower thei softli spake wing word on to the other:
"small blame is it that trojan and well-greav achaian should for
such a woman long time suffer hardship; marvel like is she to the
immort goddess to look upon. yet even so, though she be so goodli,
let her go upon their ship and not stai to vex us and our children
after us."

so said thei, and priam lift up hi voic and call to helen: "come
hither, dear child, and sit befor me, that thou mayest see thy former
husband and thei kinsfolk and thy friend. i hold thee not to blame;
nai, i hold the god to blame who brought on me the dolor war of the
achaian--so mayest thou now tell me who is thi huge hero, thi achaian
warrior so goodli and great. of a truth there ar other even taller by
a head; yet mine ey never behold a man so beauti nor so royal; for
he is like unto on that is a king."

and helen, fair among women, spake and answer him: "reverend art thou
to me and dread, dear father of my lord; would that sore death had been
my pleasur when i follow thy son hither, and left my home and my
kinsfolk and my daughter in her girlhood and the love compani of mine
ag-fellow. but that wa not so, wherefor i pine with weep. now
will i tell thee that whereof thou askest me and enquirest. thi is
atreid, wide-rule agamemnon, on that is both a goodli king and
mighti spearman. and he wa my husband's brother to me, ah shameless me;
if ever such an on there wa."

so said she, and the old man marvel at him, and said: "ah, happi
atreid, child of fortun, blest of heaven; now know i that mani son
of the achaian ar subject to thee. erewhil fare i to phrygia, the
land of vine, and there saw i that the men of phrygia, thei of the
nimbl steed, were veri mani, even the host of otreu and godlik
mygdon, that were then encamp along the bank of sangario. for i too
be their alli wa number among them on the dai that the amazon
came, the peer of men. yet were not even thei so mani as ar the
glanc-ei achaian."

and next the old man saw odysseu, and ask: "come now, tell me of thi
man too, dear child, who is he, shorter by a head than agamemnon son of
atreu, but broader of shoulder and of chest to behold? hi armour lieth
upon the bounteou earth, and himself like a bell-wether rangeth the
rank of warrior. yea, i liken him to a thick-fleec ram order a
great flock of ew."

then helen sprung of zeu made answer to him: "now thi is laert' son,
crafti odysseu, that wa rear in the realm of ithaka, rug though
it be, and skill in all the wai of wile and cun devic."

then sage antenor made answer to her: "ladi, verili the thing thou
sayest is true inde, for erst came goodli odysseu hither also on an
embassag for thee, in the compani of menelao dear to ar; and i gave
them entertain and welcom them in my hall, and learnt the aspect
of both and their wise devic. now when thei mingl with the trojan
in the assembl, while all stood up menelao overpass them all by the
measur of hi broad shoulder; but when both sat down, odysseu wa the
more state. and when thei began to weav the web of word and counsel
in the face of all, then menelao harangu fluentli, in few word, but
veri clearli, see he wa not long of speech, neither random, though
in year he wa the younger. but whenev odysseu full of wile rose
up, he stood and look down, with ey fix upon the ground, and wave
not hi staff whether backward or forward, but held it stiff, like to
a man of no understand; on would deem him to be churlish, and naught
but a fool. but when he utter hi great voic from hi chest, and
word like unto the snowflak of winter, then could no mortal man
contend with odysseu; then marvel we not thu to behold odysseu'
aspect."

and thirdli the old man sai aia, and ask: "who then is thi other
achaian warrior, goodli and great, preemin among the archiv by the
measur of hi head and broad shoulder?"

and long-robe helen, fair among women, answer: "thi is huge aia,
bulwark of the achaian. and on the other side amid the cretan standeth
idomeneu like a god, and about him ar gather the captain of the
cretan. oft did menelao dear to ar entertain him in our hous
whene'er he came from crete. and now behold i all the other
glanc-ei achaian, whom well i could discern and tell their name;
but two captain of the host can i not see, even kastor tamer of hors
and polydeuk the skil boxer, mine own brethren, whom the same mother
bare. either thei came not in the compani from love lakedaimon; or
thei came hither inde in their seafar ship, but now will not enter
into the battl of the warrior, for fear of the mani scorn and
revil that ar mine."

so said she; but them the life-give earth held fast there in
lakedaimon, in their dear nativ land.

meanwhil were the herald bear through the citi the holi
oath-offer, two lamb and strong-heart wine, the fruit of the
earth, in a goat-skin bottl. and the herald idaio bare the shine
bowl and golden cup; and came to the old man and summon him and said:
"rise, thou son of laomedon. the chieftain of the hors-tame trojan
and mail-clad achaian call on thee to go down into the plain, that ye
mai pledg a trusti oath. but alexandro and menelao dear to ar will
fight with their long spear for the ladi's sake; and let ladi and
treasur go with him that shall conquer. and mai we that ar left pledg
friendship and trusti oath and dwell in deep-soil troi, and thei
shall depart to argo pastur-land of hors and achaia home of fair
women."

so said he, and the old man shudder and base hi companion yoke the
hors; and thei with speed obei. then priam mount and drew back the
rein, and by hi side antenor mount the splendid chariot. so the two
drave the fleet hors through the skaian gate to the plain. and when
thei had come even to the trojan and achaian, thei went down from the
chariot upon the bounteou earth, and march into the midst of trojan
and achaian. then forthwith rose up agamemnon king of men, and up rose
odysseu the man of wile; and the lordli herald gather togeth the
holi oath-offer of the god, and mingl the wine in a bowl, and
pour water over the princ' hand. and atreid put forth hi hand
and drew hi knife that hung ever besid hi sword's great sheath, and
cut the hair from off the lamb' head; and then the herald portion
it among the chief of the trojan and achaian. then in their midst
atreu' son lift up hi hand and prai aloud: "father zeu, that
rulest from ida, most gloriou, most great, and thou sun that seest all
thing and hearest all thing, and ye river and thou earth, and ye that
in the underworld punish men outworn, whosoev sweareth fals; be ye
wit, and watch over the faith oath. if alexandro slai
menelao, then let him have helen to himself and all her possess;
and we will depart on our seafar ship. but if golden-hair menelao
slai alexandro, then let the trojan give back helen and all her
possess and pai the argiv the recompens that is seemli, such as
shall live among men that shall be hereaft. but if so be that priam
and priam's son will not pai the recompens unto me when alexandro
falleth, then will i fight on thereaft for the price of sin, and abid
here till i compass the end of war."

so said he, and cut the lamb' throat with the pitiless knife. them he
laid gasp upon the ground, fail of breath, for the knife had taken
their strength from them; and next thei drew the wine from the bowl into
the cup, and pour it forth and prai to the god that live for ever.
and thu would sai mani an on of achaian and trojan: "zeu most
gloriou, most great, and all ye immort god, which folk soe'er be
first to sin against the oath, mai their brain be so pour forth upon
the earth even as thi wine, their and their children's; and let their
wive be made subject unto stranger."

so spake thei, but the son of krono vouchsaf not yet fulfil. and
in their midst priam of the seed of dardano utter hi sai:
"hearken to me, trojan and well-greav achaian. i verili will return
back to windi ilio, see that i can in no wise bear to behold with
mine ey my dear son fight with menelao dear to ar. but zeu
knoweth, and all the immort god, for whether of the twain the doom of
death is appoint."

so spake the godlik man, and laid the lamb in hi chariot, and enter
in himself, and drew back the rein; and by hi side antenor mount the
splendid chariot. so thei depart back again to ilio; and hector son
of priam and goodli odysseu first mete out a space, and then thei took
the lot, and shook them in a bronz-bound helmet, to know whether of
the twain should first cast hi spear of bronz. and the peopl prai
and lift up their hand to the god; and thu would sai mani an on of
achaian and trojan: "father zeu, that rulest from ida, most gloriou,
most great; whichso'er it be that brought thi troubl upon both
peopl, vouchsaf that he mai die and enter the hous of hade; that so
for us peac mai be assur and trusti oath."

so said thei; and great hector of the glanc plume shook the helmet,
look behind him; and quickli leapt forth the lot of pari. then the
peopl sat them down by rank where each man's high-step hors and
inwrought armour lai. and upon hi shoulder goodli alexandro don
hi beauteou armour, even he that wa lord to helen of the love hair.
first upon hi leg set he hi greav, beauti, fasten with silver
ankl-clasp; next upon hi breast he don the corslet of hi brother
lykaon, and fit it upon himself. and over hi shoulder cast he hi
silver-stud sword of bronz, and then a shield great and sturdi. and
on hi mighti head he set a wrought helmet of hors-hair crest,
whereov the plume nod terribl, and he took him a strong spear
fit to hi grasp. and in like wise warlik menelao don hi
armour.

so when thei had arm themselv on either side in the throng, thei
strode between trojan and achaian, fierc of aspect, and wonder came
on them that beheld, both on the trojan tamer of hors and on the
well-greav achaian. then took thei their stand near togeth in the
measur space, brandish their spear in wrath each against other.
first alexandro hurl hi far shadow spear, and smote on atreid'
round shield; but the bronz brake not through, for it point wa turn
in the stout shield. next menelao son of atreu lift up hi hand to
cast, and made prayer to father zeu: "king zeu, grant me reveng on
him that wa first to do me wrong, even on goodli alexandro, and subdu
thou him at my hand; so that mani an on of men that shall be hereaft
mai shudder to wrong hi host that hath shown him kind."

so said he, and pois hi far-shadow spear, and hurl, and smote on
the round shield of the son of priam. through the bright shield went the
ponder spear and through the inwrought breastplat it press on; and
straight besid hi flank the spear rent the tunic, but he swerv and
escap black death. then atreid drew hi silver-stud sword, and
lift up hi hand and smote the helmet-ridg; but the sword shatter
upon it into three, yea four, and fell from hi hand. thereat atreid
look up to the wide heaven and cri: "father zeu, sure none of the
god is crueller than thou. verili i thought to have gotten vengeanc on
alexandro for hi wicked, but now my sword breaketh in my hand, and
my spear sped from my grasp in vain, and i have not smitten him."

so sai, he leapt upon him and caught him by hi hors-hair crest, and
swing him round drag him toward the well-greav achaian; and he
wa strangl by the embroid strap beneath hi soft throat, drawn
tight below hi chin to hold hi helm. now would menelao have drag
him awai and won glori unspeak, but that zeu' daughter aphrodit
wa swift to mark, and tore asund for him the strap of slaughter
ox's hide; so the helmet came awai empti in hi stalwart hand. thereat
menelao cast it with a swing toward the well-greav achaian, and hi
trusti comrad took it up; and himself sprang back again eager to slai
him with spear of bronz. but aphrodit snatch up pari, veri easili
as a goddess mai, and hid him in thick dark, and sent him down in
hi fragrant perfum chamber; and herself went to summon helen. her she
found on the high tower, and about her the trojan women throng. so
with her hand she pluck her perfum raiment and shook it and spake to
her in the like of an ag dame, a wool-comber that wa wont to work
for her fair wool when she dwelt in lakedaimon, whom too she greatli
love. even in her like fair aphrodit spake: "come hither;
alexandro summoneth thee to go homeward. there is he in hi chamber and
inlaid bed, radiant in beauti and vestur; nor wouldst thou deem him to
be come from fight hi foe, but rather to be fare to the danc, or
from the danc to be just rest and set down."

so said she, and stir helen's soul within her breast; and when now
she mark the fair neck and love breast and sparkl ey of the
goddess, she marvel straightwai and spake a word and call upon her
name: "strang queen, why art thou desir now to beguil me? verili
thou wilt lead me further on to some on of the peopl citi of phrygia
or love maionia, if there too thou hast perchanc some other darl
among mortal men, becaus even now menelao hath conquer goodli
alexandro, and will lead me, accurs me, to hi home. therefor thou
comest hither with guil intent. go and sit thou by hi side and
depart from the wai of the god; neither let thy feet ever bear thee
back to olympu, but still be vex for hi sake and guard him till he
make thee hi wife or perchanc hi slave. but thither will i not go--
that were a sin thing--to arrai the bed of him; all the women of troi
will blame me thereaft; and i have grief untold within my soul."

then in wrath bright aphrodit spake to her: "provok me not, rash
woman, lest in mine anger i desert thee, and hate thee even as now i
love thee beyond measur, and lest i devis grievou enmiti between
both, even betwixt trojan and achaian, and so thou perish in evil
wise."

so said she, and helen sprung of zeu wa afraid, and went wrap in
her bright radiant vestur, silent, and the trojan women mark her
not; and the goddess led the wai.

now when thei were come to the beauti hous of alexandro the
handmaiden turn straightwai to their task, and the fair ladi went to
the high-roof chamber; and laughter-love aphrodit took for her a
chair and brought it, even she the goddess, and set it befor the face
of pari. there helen took her seat, the child of aegi-bear zeu,
and with ey turn askanc spake and chode her lord: "thou comest back
from battl; would thou hadst perish there, vanquish of that great
warrior that wa my former husband. verili it wa onc thy boast that
thou wast a better man than menelao dear to ar, in the might of thine
arm and thy spear. but go now, challeng menelao, dear to ar to fight
thee again face to face. nai, but i, even i, bid thee refrain, nor fight
a fight with golden-hair menelao man to man, neither attack him
recklessli, lest perchanc thou fall to hi spear anon."

and pari made answer to her and said: "chide not my soul, ladi, with
cruel taunt. for now inde hath menelao vanquish me with athen's
aid, but anoth dai mai i do so unto him; for we too have god with us.
but come now, let us have joi of love upon our couch; for never yet hath
love so enwrap my heart--not even then when first i snatch thee
from love lakedaimon and sail with thee on my sea-fare ship, and
in the isl of krana had convers with thee upon thy couch in love--as
i love thee now and sweet desir taketh hold upon me." so sai he led
the wai to the couch, and the ladi follow with him.

thu laid thei them upon their fret couch; but atreid the while
strode through the host like to a wild beast, if anywher he might set
ey on godlik alexandro. but none of the trojan or their fame
alli could discov alexandro to menelao dear to ar. yet sure
did thei in no wise hide him for kindli, could ani have seen him;
for he wa hate of all even as black death. so agamemnon king of men
spake among them there: "hearken to me, trojan and dardanian and
alli. now is victori declar for menelao dear to ar; give ye back
helen of argo and the possess with her, and pai ye the recompens
such as is seemli, that it mai live even among men that shall be
hereaft." so said atreid, and all the achaian gave assent.



book iv.

    how pandaro wound menelao by treacheri; and agamemnon
    exhort hi chief captain to battl.

now the god sat by zeu and held assembl on the golden floor, and in
the midst the ladi hebe pour them their nectar: thei with golden
goblet pledg on anoth, and gaze upon the citi of the trojan.
then did krono' son essai to provok hera with vex word, and spake
malici: "twain goddess hath menelao for hi helper, even hera
of argo and alalkomenean athen. yet these sit apart and take there
pleasur in behold; but besid that other ever standeth
laughter-love aphrodit and wardeth off fate from him, and now hath
she save him as he thought to perish. but of a truth the victori is to
menelao dear to ar; so let us take thought how these thing shall be;
whether onc more we shall arous ill war and the dread battl-din, or
put friendship between the foe. moreov if thi were welcom to all
and well pleas, mai the citi of king priam yet be an habit, and
menelao take back helen of argo."

so said he, but athen and hera murmur thereat, who were sit by
him and devis ill for the trojan. now athen held her peac and
said not anyth, for wrath at father zeu, and fierc anger gat hold
upon her: but hera's breast contain not her anger, and she spake:
"most dread son of krono, what word is thi thou hast spoken? how hast
thou the will to make my labour void and of none effect, and the sweat
of my toil that i sweat, when my hors were weari with my summon
of the host, to be the plagu of priam and hi son? do as thou wilt;
but we other god do not all approv thee."

then in sore anger zeu the cloud-gather spake to her: "good lack, how
have priam and priam's son done thee such great wrong that thou art
furious mind to sack the establish citadel of ilio? perchanc
wert thou to enter within the gate and long wall and devour priam raw,
and priam's son and all the trojan, then mightest thou assuag thine
anger. do as thou art mind, onli let not thi quarrel hereaft be to
me and thee a sore strife between us both. and thi moreov will i sai
to thee, and do thou lai it to thei heart; whene'er i too be of eager
mind to lai wast to a citi where is the race of men that ar dear to
thee, hinder thou not my wrath, but let me be, even as i yield to thee
of free will, yet with soul unwil. for all citi beneath sun and
starri heaven that ar the dwell of mortal men, holi ilio wa most
honour of my heart, and priam and the folk of priam of the good ashen
spear. for never did mine altar lack the seemli feast, even
drink-offer and burnt-offer, the worship that is our due."

then helen the ox-ei queen made answer to him: "of a sureti three
citi ar there that ar dearest far to me, argo and sparta and
wide-wai myken; these lai thou wast whene'er thei ar found hate
to thy heart; not for them will i stand forth, nor do i grudg thee
them. for even if i be jealou and would forbid thee to overthrow them,
yet will my jealousi not avail, see that thou art stronger far than
i. still must my labour too not be made of none effect; for i also am a
god, and my lineag is even as thine, and krono the crook counsellor
begat me to the place of honour in doubl wise, by birthright, and
becaus i am name thy spous, and thou art king among all the
immort. let us inde yield each to other herein, i to thee and thou
to me, and the rest of the immort god will follow with us; and do
thou with speed charg athen to betak her to the fierc battl din of
trojan and achaian, and to essai that the trojan mai first take upon
them to do violenc to the achaian in their triumph, despit the
oath."

so said she, and the father of men and god disregard not; forthwith
he spake to athen wing word: "betak thee with all speed to the
host, to the midst of trojan and achaian, and essai that the trojan
mai first take upon them to do violenc to the achaian in their
triumph, despit the oath."

so spake he, and rous athen that alreadi wa set thereon; and from
olympu' height she dart down. even as the son of krono the crook
counsellor sendeth a star, a portent for marin or a wide host of
men, bright shine, and therefrom ar scatter spark in multitud;
even in such guis sped palla athen to earth, and leapt into their
midst; and astonish came on them that beheld, on hors-tame
trojan and well-greav achaian. and thu would mani an on sai,
look at hi neighbor: "of a sureti either shall sore war and the
fierc battl din return again; or els zeu doth stablish peac between
the foe, even he that is men's dispens of battl."

thu would mani an on of achaian and trojan sai. then the goddess
enter the throng of trojan in the like of a man, even antenor's
son laodoko, a stalwart warrior, and sought for godlik pandaro, if
hapli she might find him. lykaon's son found she, the nobl and
stalwart, stand, and about him the stalwart rank of the
shield-bear host that follow him from the stream of aisepo. so
she came near and spake wing word: "wilt thou now hearken to me, thou
wise son of lykaon? then wouldst thou take heart to shoot a swift arrow
at menelao, and wouldst win favour and glori befor all the trojan,
and befor king alexandro most of all. sure from him first of ani
wouldst thou receiv gloriou gift, if perchanc he see menelao,
atreu' warrior son, vanquish by thy dart and brought to the grievou
pyre. go to now, shoot at gloriou menelao, and vow to apollo, the son
of light [or, perhap, "the wolf-born"], the lord of archeri, to
sacrific a goodli hecatomb of firstl lamb when thou art return to
thy home, in the citi of holi zeleia."

so spake athen, and persuad hi fool's heart. forthwith he unsheath
hi polish bow of horn of a wild ibex that he himself had erst smitten
beneath the breast as it came forth from a rock, the while he await in
a lurk-place; and had pierc it in the chest, so that it fell
backward on the rock. now from it head sprang there horn of sixteen
palm; these the artific, even the worker in horn, join cunningli
togeth, and polish them all well and set the top of gold thereon. so
he laid it down when he had well strung it, by rest it upon the
ground; and hi staunch comrad held their shield befor him, lest the
warrior son of the achaian should first set on them, er menelao,
atreu' son, were smitten. then open he the lid of hi quiver and took
forth a feather arrow, never yet shot, a sourc of grievou pang; and
anon he laid the bitter dart upon the string and vow to apollo, the
son of light, the lord of archeri, to sacrific a goodli hecatomb of
firstl lamb when he should have return to hi home in the citi of
holi zeleia. then he took the notch and string of ox' sinew togeth,
and drew, bring to hi breast the string, and to the bow the iron
head. so when he had now bent the great bow into a round, the horn
twang, and the string sang aloud, and the keen arrow leapt eager to
wing hi wai amid the throng.

but the bless god immort forgat not thee, menelao; and befor all
the daughter of zeu, the driver of the spoil, who stood befor thee and
ward off the pierc dart. she turn it just asid from the flesh,
even as a mother driveth a fly from her child that lieth in sweet
slumber; and with her own hand guid it where the golden buckl of the
belt were clasp and the doubl breastplat met them. so the bitter
arrow light upon the firm belt; through the inwrought belt it sped and
through the curious wrought breastplat it press on and through the
taslet [and apron or belt set with metal, worn below the corslet] he
wore to shield hi flesh, a barrier against dart; and thi best
shield him, yet it pass on even through thi. then did the arrow
graze the warrior's outermost flesh, and forthwith the duski blood
flow from the wound.

as when some woman of maionia or karia staineth ivori with purpl, to
make a cheek-piec for hors, and it is laid up in the treasur
chamber, and mani a horseman prayeth for it to wear; but it is laid up
to be a king's boast, alik an adorn for hi hors and a glori for
hi chariot; even in such wise, menelao, were thy shape thigh
stain with blood and thy leg and thy fair ankl beneath.

thereat shudder agamemnon king of men when he saw the black blood
flow from the wound. and menelao dear to ar likewis shudder;
but when he saw how thread [by which the iron head wa attach to the
shaft] and bard were without, hi spirit wa gather in hi breast
again. then lord agamemnon moan deep, and spake among them, hold
menelao by the hand; and hi comrad made moan the while: "dear
brother, to thy death, meseemeth, pledg i these oath, set thee
forth to fight the trojan alon befor the face of the achaian; see
that the trojan have so smitten thee, and trodden under floor the trusti
oath. yet in no wise is an oath of none effect, and the blood of lamb
and pure drink-offer and the right hand of fellowship wherein we
trust. for even if the olympian bring not about the fulfil
forthwith, yet doth he fulfil at last, and men make dear amend, even
with their own head and their wive and littl on. yea of a sureti i
know thi in heart and soul; the dai shall come for holi ilio to be
laid low, and priam and the folk of priam of the good ashen spear; and
zeu the son of krono enthron on high, that dwelleth in the heaven,
himself shall brandish over them all hi lowr aegi, in indign
at thi deceit. then shall all thi not be void; yet shall i have sore
sorrow for thee, menelao, if thou die and fulfil the lot of life. yea
in utter shame should i return to thirsti argo, see that the
achaian will forthwith bethink them of their nativ land, and so should
we leav to priam and the trojan their boast, even helen of argo. and
the earth shall rot thy bone as thou liest in troi with thy task
unfinish: and thu shall mani an overween trojan sai as he leapeth
upon the tomb of gloriou menelao: 'would to god agamemnon might so
fulfil hi wrath in everi matter, even as now he led hither the host of
the achaian for naught, and hath gone home again to hi dear nativ
land with empti ship, and hath left nobl menelao behind.' thu shall
men sai hereaft: in that dai let the wide earth gape for me."

but golden-hair menelao encourag him and said: "be of good courag,
neither dismai at all the host of the achaian. the keen dart light
not upon a deadli spot; my glisten belt in front stai it, and the
kirtl of mail beneath, and the taslet that the coppersmith fashion."

then lord agamemnon answer him and said: "would it mai be so, dear
menelao. but the leech shall feel the wound, and lai thereon drug that
shall assuag thy dire pang."

so sai he spake to godlik talthybio, hi herald: "talthybio, with
all speed call machaon hither, the hero son of asklepio the nobl
leech, to see menelao, atreu' warrior son, whom on well skill in
archeri, some trojan or lykian, hath wound with a bow-shot, to hi
glori and our grief."

so said he, and the herald heard him and disregard not, and went hi
wai through the host of mail-clad achaian to spy out the hero machaon.
him he found stand, and about him the stalwart rank of the
shield-bear host that follow him from trike, pastur land of
hors. so he came near and spake hi wing word: "aris, thou son of
asklepio. lord agamemnon calleth thee to see menelao, captain of the
achaian, whom on well skill in archeri, some trojan or lykian, hath
wound with a bow-shot, to hi glori and our grief."

so sai he arous hi spirit in hi breast, and thei went their wai
amid the throng, through the wide host of the achaian. and when thei
were now come where wa golden-hair menelao wound, and all as mani
as were chieftain gather around him in a circl, the godlik hero
came and stood in their midst, and anon drew forth the arrow from the
clasp belt; and as it wa drawn forth the keen barb were broken
backward. then he loos the glister belt and kirtl of mail beneath
and taslet that the coppersmith fashion; and when he saw the wound
where the bitter arrow had light, he suck out the blood and
cunningli spread thereon sooth drug, such as cheiron of hi good
will had impart to hi sire.

while these were tend menelao of the loud war-cry, the rank of
shield-bear trojan came on; so the achaian don their arm again,
and bethought them of the frai. now wouldest thou not see nobl
agamemnon slumber, nor cower, unreadi to fight, but veri eager for
gloriou battl. he left hi hors and hi chariot adorn with bronz;
and hi squir, even eurymedon son of ptolemaio peiraieu' son, kept
apart the snort steed; and he straitli charg him to have them at
hand whenev weari should come upon hi limb with marshal so
mani; and thu on foot rang he through the rank of warrior. and
whomsoev of all the fleet-hors danaan he found eager, he stood by
them and by hi word encourag them: "ye argiv, relax not in ani
wise your impetu valour; for father zeu will be no helper of liar,
but as these were first to transgress against the oath, so shall their
own tender flesh be eaten of the vultur, and we shall bear awai their
dear wive and littl children in our ship, when onc we take the
stronghold."

but whomsoev he found shrink from hate battl, these he chode
sore with angri word: "ye argiv, warrior of the bow, ye men of
dishonour, have ye no shame? why stand ye thu daze like fawn that ar
weari with run over the long plain and so stand still, and no valour
is found in their heart at all? even thu stand ye daze, and fight
not. is it that ye wait for the trojan to come near where your good
ship' stern ar drawn up on the shore of the grei sea, to see if
kronion will stretch hi arm over you inde?"

so masterfulli rang he through the rank of warrior. then came he to
the cretan as he went through the throng of warrior; and these were
take arm around wise idomeneu; idomeneu amid the foremost, valiant
as a wild boar, and merion the while wa hasten hi hindermost
battalion. then agamemnon king of men rejoic to see them, and anon
spake to idomeneu with kindli word: "idomeneu, more than all the
fleet-hors danaan do i honour thee, whether in war or in task of
other sort or in the feast, when the chieftain of the argiv mingl in
the bowl the gleam wine of the counsellor. for even though all the
other flow-hair achaian drink on allot portion, yet thy cup
standeth ever full even as mine, to drink as oft as thei soul biddeth
thee. now arous thee to war like such an on as thou avowest thyself to
be of old."

and idomeneu the captain of the cretan made answer to him: "atreid,
of veri truth will i be to thee a trusti comrad even as at the first i
promis and gave my pledg; but do thou urg on all the flow-hair
achaian, that we mai fight will all speed, see the trojan have
disannul the oath. but for all that death and sorrow hereaft shall
be their lot, becaus thei were the first to transgress against the
oath."

so said he, and agamemnon pass on glad at heart. then came he to the
aiant as he went through the throng of warrior; and these twain were
arm, and a cloud of footmen follow with them. even as when a
goatherd from a place of outlook seeth a cloud come across the deep
befor the blast of the west wind; and to him be afar it seemeth ever
blacker, even as pitch, as it goeth along the deep, and bringeth a great
whirlwind, and he shuddereth to see it and driveth hi flock beneath a
cave; even in such wise move the serri battalion of young men, the
fosterl of zeu, by the side of the aiant into furiou war,
battalion dark of line, bristl with shield and spear. and lord
agamemnon rejoic to see them and spake to them wing word, and said:
"aiant, leader of the mail-clad argiv, to you twain, see it is
not seemli to urg you, give i no charg; for of your own selv ye do
inde bid your folk to fight amain. ah, father zeu and athen and
apollo, would that all had like spirit in their breast; then would king
priam's citi soon bow captiv and wast beneath our hand."

so sai he left them there, and went to other. then found he nestor,
the clear-voic orat of the pylian, arrai hi comrad, and
urg them to fight, around great pelegon and alastor and chromio and
lord haimon and bia shepherd of the host. and first he arrai the
horsemen with hors and chariot, and behind them the footmen mani and
brave, to be a bulwark of battl; but the coward he drave into the
midst, that everi man, even though he would not, yet of necess must
fight. first he laid charg upon the horsemen; these he bade hold in
their hors nor be entangl in the throng. "neither let ani man,
trust in hi horsemanship and manhood, be eager to fight the trojan
alon and befor the rest, nor yet let him draw back, for so will ye be
enfeebl. but whomsoev a warrior from the place of hi own car can
come at a chariot of the foe, let him thrust forth with hi spear; even
so is the far better wai. thu moreov did men of old time lai low
citi and wall, becaus thei had thi mind and spirit in their
breast."

so did the old man charg them, be well skill of yore in battl.
and lord agamemnon rejoic to see hem, and spake to him wing word,
and said: "old man, would to god that, even as thy spirit is in thine
own breast, thy limb might obei and thy strength be unab. but the
common lot of ag is heavi upon thee; would that it had come upon some
other man, and thou wert amid the young."

then knightli nestor of gerenia answer him: "atreid, i verili, even
i too, would wish to be as on the dai when i slew nobl ereuthalion. but
the god in no wise grant men all thing at onc. as i wa then a youth,
so doth old ag now beset me. yet even so will i abid among the
horsemen and urg them by counsel and word; for that is the right of
elder. but the young men shall wield the spear, thei that ar more
youth than i and have confid in their strength."

so spake he, and atreid pass on glad at heart. he found menestheu
the chariot, the son of peteo, stand still, and round him were
the athenian, master of the battl-cry. and hard by stood crafti
odysseu, and round about him the rank of kephallenian, no feebl
folk, stood still; for their host had not yet heard the battl-cry,
see the battalion of hors-tame trojan and achaian had but just
bestir them to move; so these stood still tarri till some other
column of the achaian should advanc to set upon the trojan and begin
the battl. but when agamemnon king of men saw it, he upbraid them,
and spake to them wing word, sai: "o son of king peteo fosterl
of zeu, and thou skill in evil wile, thou cun of mind, why stand
ye shrink apart, and tarri for other? you beseemeth it to stand in
your place amid the foremost and to front the fieri battl; for ye ar
the first to hear my bid to the feast, as oft as we achaian prepar
a feast for the counsellor. then ar ye glad to eat roast meat and
drink your cup of honei-sweet wine as long as ye will. but now would ye
gladli behold it, yea, if ten column of achaian in front of you were
fight with the pitiless sword."

but odysseu of mani counsel look fierc at him and said:
"atreid, what word is thi that hath escap the barrier of thy lip?
how sayest thou that we ar slack in battl? when onc our [or, "that we
ar slack in battl, when onc we achaian," put the note of
interrog after "tamer of hors."] achaian launch furiou war on
the trojan, tamer of hors, then shalt thou, if thou wilt, and if
thou hast ani care therefor, behold telemacho' dear father mingl
with the champion of the trojan, the tamer of hors. but that thou
sayest is empti as air."

then lord agamemnon spake to him smile, see how he wa wroth, and
took back hi sai: "heaven-sprung son of laert, odysseu full of
devic, neither do i chide thee beyond measur nor urg thee; for i
know that thy heart within thy breast is kindli dispos; for thy
thought ar as my thought. go to, we will make amend hereaft, if
ani ill word hath been spoken now; mai the god bring it all to none
effect."

so sai he left them there and went on to other. the son of tydeu
found he, high-heart diomed, stand still with hors and chariot
well compact; and by him stood sthenelo son of kapaneu. him lord
agamemnon saw and upbraid, and spake to him wing word, and said:
"ah me, thou son of wise tydeu tamer of hors, why shrinkest thou, why
gazest thou at the highwai of the battl? not thu wa tydeu wont to
shrink, but rather to fight hi enemi far in front of hi dear comrad,
as thei sai that beheld him at the task; for never did i meet him
nor behold him, but men sai that he wa preemin amid all. of a truth
he came to myken, not in enmiti, but as a guest with godlik
polyneik, to rais him an armi for the war that thei were levi
against the holi wall of thebe; and thei besought earnestli that
valiant alli might be given them, and our folk were fain to grant them
and made assent to their entreati, onli zeu show omen of ill and
turn their mind. so when these were depart and were come on their
wai, and had attain to asopo deep in rush, that maketh hi bed in
grass, there did the achaian appoint tydeu to be their ambassador. so
he went and found the multitud of the son of kadmo feast in the
palac of mighti eteokl. yet wa knightli tydeu, even though a
stranger, not afraid, be alon amid the multitud of the kadmeian,
but challeng them all to feat of strength, and in everi on
vanquish he them easili; so present a helper wa athen unto him. but
the kadmeian, the urger of hors, were wroth, and as he fare back
again thei brought and set a strong ambush, even fifti young men, whose
leader were twain, maion son of haimon, like to the immort, and
autophono' son polyphont staunch in battl. still even on the tydeu
brought shame death; he slew them all, save on that he sent home
alon; maion to wit he sent awai in obedi to the omen of heaven.
such wa tydeu of aitolia; but he begat a son that in battl is wors
than he; onli in harangu is he the better."

so said he, and stalwart diomed made no answer, but had respect to the
chide of the king rever. but the son of gloriou kapaneu answer
him: "atreid, utter not falsehood, see thou knowest how to speak
truli. we avow ourselv to be better men by far than our father were:
we did take the seat of thebe the seven gate, though we led a scantier
host against a stronger wall, becaus we follow the omen of the god
and the salvat of zeu; but thei perish by their own iniqu. do
not thou therefor in ani wise have our father in like honour with us."

but stalwart diomed look sternli at him, and said: "brother, sit
silent and obei my sai. i grudg not that agamemnon shepherd of the
host should urg on the well-greav achaian to fight; for him the
glori will attend if the achaian lai the trojan low and take holi
ilio; and hi will be the great sorrow if the achaian be laid low. go
to now, let us too bethink us of impetu valour."

he spake and leapt in hi armour from the chariot to earth, and terribl
rang the bronz upon the chieftain's breast as he move; thereat might
fear have come even upon on stout-heart.

as when on the  echo beach the sea-wave lifteth up itself in close
arrai befor the drive of the west wind; out on the deep doth it first
rais it head, and then breaketh upon the land and belloweth aloud and
goeth with arch crest about the promontori, and speweth the foam
brine afar; even so in close arrai move the battalion of the danaan
without paus to battl. each captain gave hi men the word, and the
rest went silent; thou wouldest not deem that all the great host
follow them had ani voic within their breast; in silenc fear
thei their captain. on everi man glitter the inwrought armour
wherewith thei went clad. but for the trojan, like sheep beyond number
that stand in the courtyard of a man of great substanc, to be milk of
their white milk, and bleat without ceas to hear their lamb' cry,
even so aros the clamour of the trojan through the wide host. for thei
had not all like speech nor on languag, but their tongu were
mingl, and thei were brought from mani land. these were urg on of
ar, and those of bright-ei athen, and terror and rout, and strife
whose furi wearieth not, sister and friend of murder ar; her crest
is but lowli at the first, but afterward she holdeth up her head in
heaven and her feet walk upon the earth. she now cast common discord in
their midst, as she fare through the throng and made the lament of
men to wax.

now when thei were met togeth and come unto on spot, then clash
thei targ and spear and furi of bronz-clad warrior; the boss shield
press each on each and mighti din aros. then were heard the voic of
groan and the voic of triumph togeth of the slayer and the slain,
and the earth stream with blood. as when two winter torrent flow down
the mountain to a watersmeet and join their furiou flood within the
ravin from their great spring, and the shepherd heareth the roar
far off among the hill: even so from the join of battl came there
forth shout and travail. antilocho first slew a trojan warrior in
full arrai, valiant amid the champion, echepolo son of thalysio; him
wa he first to smite upon the ridg of hi crest helmet, and he drave
the spear into hi brow and the point of bronz pass within the bone;
dark cloud hi ey, and he crash like a tower amid the press of
fight. as he fell lord elephenor caught him by the foot, chalkodon's
son, captain of the great-heart abant, and drag him from beneath
the dart, eager with all speed to despoil him of hi armour. yet but
for a littl endur hi essai; great-heart agenor saw him hale awai
the corps, and where hi side wa left uncov of hi buckler as he
bow him down, there smote he him with bronz-tip spear-shaft and
unstrung hi limb. so hi life depart from him, and over hi corps
the task of trojan and achaian grew hot; like wolv leapt thei on at
anoth, and man lash at man.

next telamonian aia smote anthemion's son, the lusti stripl
simoeisio, whose erst is mother bare besid the bank of simoei on the
wai down from ida whither she had follow with her parent to see their
flock. therefor thei call him simoeisio, but he repaid not hi dear
parent the recompens of hi nurtur; scanti wa hi span of life by
reason of the spear of great-heart aia that laid him low. for as he
went he first wa smitten on hi right breast besid the pap; straight
though hi shoulder pass the spear of bronz, and he fell to the
ground in the dust like a poplar-tree, that hath grown up smooth in the
lowland of a great marsh, and it branch grow upon the top thereof;
thi hath a wainwright fell with gleam steel, to bend him a fello
for a goodli chariot, and so it li dry by a river's bank. in such
a fashion did heaven-sprung aia slai simoeisio son of anthemion; then
at him antipho of the glanc corslet, priam's son, made a cast with
hi keen javelin across the throng. him he miss, but smote odysseu'
valiant comrad leuko in the groin as he drew the corps hi wai, so
that he fell upon it and the bodi drop from hi hand. then odysseu
wa veri wroth at heart for the slai of him, and strode through the
forefront of the battl har in flash bronz, and went and stood
hard by and glanc around him, and cast hi bright javelin; and the
trojan shrank befor the cast of the hero. he sped not the dart in
vain, but smote demokoon, priam's bastard son that had come to him from
tend hi fleet mare in abydo. him odysseu, be wroth for hi
comrad's sake, smote with hi javelin on on templ; and through both
templ pass the point of bronz, and dark cloud hi ey, and
he fell with a crash and hi armour clang upon him. then the
forefight and gloriou hector yield, and the argiv shout aloud,
and drew the bodi unto them, and press yet further onward. but
apollo look down from pergamo, and had indign, and with a shout
call to the trojan: "aris, ye trojan, tamer of hors; yield not
to the argiv in fight; not of stone nor iron is their flesh, that it
should resist the pierc bronz when thei ar smitten. moreov
achil, son of theti of the fair tress, fighteth not, but amid the
ship broodeth on hi bitter anger."

so spake the dread god from the citi; and the achaian likewis were
urg on of zeu' daughter the triton-born, most gloriou, as she pass
through the throng wheresoev she beheld them slacken.

next wa dior son of amrynkeu caught in the snare of fate; for he wa
smitten by a jag stone on the right leg hard by the ankl, and the
caster thereof wa captain of the men of thrace, peirro son of imbraso
that had come from aino. the pitiless stone crush utterli the two
sinew and the bone; back fell he in the dust, and stretch out both
hi hand to hi dear comrad, gasp out hi soul. then he that smote
him, even peiroo, sprang at him and pierc him with a spear besid the
navel; so all hi bowel gush forth upon the ground, and dark
cloud hi ey. but even as peiroo depart from him thoa of aitolia
smote with a spear hi chest abov the pap, and the point fix in hi
lung. then thoa came close, and pluck out from hi breast the
ponder spear, and drew hi sharp sword, wherewith he smote hi belli
in the midst, and took hi life. yet he strip not off hi armour; for
hi comrad, the men of thrace that wear the top-knot, stood around,
their long spear in their hand, and albeit he wa great and valiant
and proud thei drave him off from them and he gave ground reel. so
were the two captain stretch in the dust side by side, he of the
thracian and he of the mail-clad epeian; and around them were mani
other likewis slain.

now would none ani more enter in and make light of the battl, could it
be that a man yet unwound by dart or thrust of keen bronz might roam
in the midst, be led of palla athen by the hand, and by her guard
from the fly shaft. for mani trojan that dai and mani achaian were
laid side by side upon their face in the dust.



book v.

    how diomed by hi great valour made havoc of the trojan,
    and wound even aphrodit and ar by the help of athen.

but now to tydeu' son diomed athen gave might and courag, for him
to be pre-emin amid all the argiv and win gloriou renown. she
kindl flame unweari from hi helmet and shield, like to the star of
summer that abov all other glittereth bright after he hath bath in
the ocean stream. in such wise kindl she flame from hi head and
shoulder and sent him into the midst, where men throng the thickest.

now there wa amid the trojan on dare, rich and nobl, priest of
hephaisto; and he had two son, phegeu and idaio, well skill in all
the art of battl. these separ themselv and assail him face to
face, thei set on him from their car and he on foot upon the ground.
and when thei were now come near in onset on each other, first phegeu
hurl hi far-shadow spear; and over tydeid' left shoulder the
spear point pass, and smote not hi bodi. then next tydeid made a
spear-cast, and the javelin sped not from hi hand in vain, but smote
hi breast between the nippl, and thrust him from the chariot. so
idaio sprang awai, leav hi beauti car, and dare not to bestrid
hi slain brother; els had neither he himself escap black fate: but
hephaisto guard him and save him in a veil of dark, that he
might not have hi ag priest all broken with sorrow. and the son of
great-heart tydeu drave awai the hors and gave them to hi men to
take to the hollow ship. but when the great-heart trojan beheld the
son of dare, how on wa fled, and on wa slain besid hi chariot,
the spirit of all wa stir. but bright-ei athen took impetu
ar by the hand and spake to him and said: "ar, ar, blood-stain
bane of mortal, thou stormer of wall, can we not now leav the trojan
and achaian to fight, on whichsoev it be that father zeu bestoweth
glori? but let us twain give place, and escap the wrath of zeu."

so sai she led impetu ar from the battl.  then she made him sit
down besid loud skamandro, and the danaan push the trojan back.

so thei labour in the violent mellai; but of tydeid man could not
tell with whom he were join, whether he consort with trojan or with
achaian. for he storm across the plain like a winter torrent at the
full, that in swift cours scattereth the causei [causewai.]; neither
can the long line of causei hold it in, nor the fenc of fruit
orchard stai it sudden come when the rain of heaven driveth it; and
befor it perish in multitud the fair work of the son of men. thu
befor tydeid the serri battalion of the trojan were overthrown,
and thei abod him not for all thei were so mani.

but when lykaon's gloriou son mark him storm across the plain,
overthrow battalion befor him, anon he bent hi crook bow against
tydeid, and smote him as he sped onward, hit hard by hi right
shoulder the plate of hi corslet; the bitter arrow flew through and
held straight upon it wai, and the corslet wa dabbl with blood. over
him then loudli shout lykaon's gloriou son: "bestir you,
great-heart trojan, urger of hors; the best man of the achaian is
wound, and i deem that he shall not for long endur the violent dart."

so spake he boast; yet wa the other not vanquish of the swift
dart, onli he gave place and stood befor hi hors and hi chariot and
spake to sthenelo son of kapaneu: "hast thee, dear son of kapaneu;
descend from thy chariot, to draw me from my shoulder the bitter arrow."

so said he, and sthenelo leapt from hi chariot to earth and stood
besid him and drew the swift shaft right through, out of hi shoulder;
and the blood dart up through the pliant tunic. then diomed of the
loud war-cry prai thereat: "hear me, daughter of aegi-bear zeu,
unweari maiden! if ever in kindli mood thou stoodest by my father in
the heat of battl, even so now be thou likewis kind to me, athen.
grant me to slai thi man, and bring within my spear-cast him that took
advantag to shoot me, and boasteth over me, deem that not for long
shall i see the bright light of the sun."

so spake he in prayer, and palla athen heard him, and made hi limb
nimbl, hi feet and hi hand withal, and came near and spake wing
word: "be of good courag now, diomed, to fight the trojan; for in
thy breast i have set thy father's courag undaunt, even as it wa in
knightli tydeu, wielder of the buckler. moreov i have taken from
thine ey the mist that erst wa on them, that thou mayest well discern
both god and man. therefor if ani god come hither to make trial of
thee, fight not thou face to face with ani of the immort god; save
onli if aphrodit daughter of zeu enter into the battl, her smite thou
with the keen bronz."

so sai bright-ei athen went her wai and tydeid return and
enter the forefront of the battl; even though erst hi soul wa eager
to do battl with the trojan, yet now did threefold courag come upon
him, as upon a lion whom some shepherd in the field guard hi fleeci
sheep hath wound, be sprung into the fold, yet hath not vanquish
him; he hath rous hi might, and then cannot beat him back, but
lurketh amid the stead, and hi forsaken flock is affright; so the
sheep ar cast in heap, on upon the other, and the lion in hi furi
leapeth out of the high fold; even so in furi mingl mighti diomed
with the trojan.

him aineia beheld make havoc of the rank of warrior, and went hi
wai along the battl and amid the hurtl of spear, seek godlik
pandaro, if hapli he might find him. lykaon's son he found, the nobl
and stalwart, and stood befor hi face, and spake a word unto him.
"pandaro, where now ar thy bow and thy wing arrow, and the fame
wherein no man of thi land rivalleth thee, nor ani in lykia boasteth to
be thy better? go to now, lift thy hand in prayer to zeu and shoot thy
dart at thi fellow, whoe'er he be that lordeth it here and hath alreadi
wrought the trojan much mischief, see he hath unstrung the knee of
mani a brave man; if inde it be not some god wroth with the trojan,
in anger by reason of sacrific; the wrath of god is a sore thing to
fall on men."

and lykaon's gloriou son made answer to him: "aineia, counsellor of
the mail-clad trojan, in everyth liken i him to the wise son of
tydeu; i discern him by hi shield and crest helmet, and by the
aspect of hi hors; yet know i not sure if it be not a god. but if
it be the man i deem, even the wise son of tydeu, then not without help
of a god is he thu furiou, but some immort standeth besid him with
a cloud wrap about hi shoulder and turn asid from him my swift
dart even as it light. for alreadi have i shot my dart at him and
smote hi right shoulder right through the breastplat of hi corslet,
yea and i thought to hurl him headlong to aidoneu, yet i vanquish him
not; sure it is some wrath god. alreadi have i aim at two
princ, tydeu' and atreu' son, and both i smote and sure drew
forth blood, yet onli rous them the more. therefor in an evil hour i
took from the peg my curv bow on that dai when i led my trojan to
love ilio, to do nobl hector pleasur. but if i return and mine ey
behold my nativ land and wife and great palac lofti-roof, then mai
an alien forthwith cut my head from me if i break not thi bow with mine
hand and cast it upon the blaze fire; worthless is it servic to me
as air."

then aineia captain of the trojan answer him: "nai, talk not thu;
naught shall be mend befor that we with hors and chariot have gone
to face thi man, and made trial of him in arm. come then, mount upon
my car that thou mayest see of what sort ar the steed of tro, well
skill for follow or for flee hither or thither veri fleetli
across the plain; thei will e'en bring us to the citi safe and sound,
even though zeu hereaft give victori to diomed son of tydeu. come
therefor, take thou the lash and shine rein, and i will stand upon
the car to fight; or els withstand thou him, and to the hors will i
look."

to him made answer lykaon's gloriou son: "aineia, take thou thyself
the rein and thine own hors; better will thei draw the curv car for
their wont chariot, if perchanc it hap that we must flee from
tydeu' son; lest thei go wild for fear and will not take us from the
fight, for lack of thy voic, and so the son of great-heart tydeu
attack us and slai us both and drive awai the whole-hoov hors. so
drive thou thyself thy chariot and thy hors, and i will await hi
onset with my keen spear." so sai mount thei upon the well dight
chariot, and eagerli drave the fleet hors against tydeid, and
sthenelo, the gloriou son of kapaneu, saw them, and anon spake to
tydeid wing word: "diomed son of tydeu, dear to mine heart, i
behold two stalwart warrior eager to fight against thee, endu with
might beyond measur. the on is well skill in the bow, even pandaro,
and he moreov boasteth him to be lykaon's son; and aineia boasteth
himself to be born son of great-heart anchis, and hi mother is
aphrodit. come now, let us give place upon the chariot, neither rage
thou thu, i prai thee, in the forefront of battl, lest perchanc thou
lose thy life."

then stalwart diomed look sternli at him and said: "speak to me no
word of flight, for i ween that thou shalt not at all persuad me; not
in my blood is it to fight a skulk fight or cower down; my forc is
steadfast still. i have no mind to mount the chariot, nai, even as i am
will i go to face them; palla athen biddeth me not be afraid. and as
for these, their fleet hors shall not take both back from us again,
even if on or other escap. and thi moreov tell i thee, and lai thou
it to heart: if athen rich in counsel grant me thi glori, to slai them
both, then refrain thou here these my fleet hors, and bind the rein
tight to the chariot rim; and be mind to leap upon aineia' hors,
and drive them forth from the trojan amid the well-greav achaian.
for thei ar of that breed whereof farse zeu gave to tro
recompens for ganymed hi child, becaus thei were the best of all
hors beneath the daylight and the sun."

in such wise talk thei on to the other, and anon those other twain
came near, drive their fleet hors. first to him spake lykaon's
gloriou son: "o thou strong-soul and cun, son of proud tydeu,
verili my swift dart vanquish thee not, the bitter arrow; so now will
i make trial with my spear if i can hit thee."

he spake and pois and hurl hi far-shadow spear, and smote upon
tydeid' shield; right through it sped the point of bronz and reach
the breastplat. so over him shout loudli lykaon's gloriou son: "thou
art smitten on the belli right through, and i ween thou shalt not long
hold up thine head; so thou givest me great renown."

but mighti diomed unaffright answer him: "thou hast miss, and
not hit; but ye twain i deem shall not ceas till on or other shall
have fallen and glut with blood ar the stubborn god of war."

so spake he and hurl; and athen guid the dart upon hi nose besid
the ey, and it pierc through hi white teeth. so the hard bronz cut
through hi tongu at the root and the point issu forth by the base of
the chin. he fell from hi chariot, and hi splendid armour gleam
clang upon him, and the fleet-foot hors swerv asid; so there
hi soul and strength were unstrung.

then aineia leapt down with shield and long spear, fear lest
perchanc the achaian might take from him the corps; and strode over
him like a lion confid in hi strength, and held befor him hi spear
and the circl of hi shield, eager to slai whoe'er should come to face
him, cry hi terribl cry. then tydeid grasp in hi hand a
stone--a mighti deed--such as two men, as men now ar, would not avail
to lift; yet he with eas wield it all alon. therewith he smote
aineia on the hip where the thigh turneth in the hip joint, and thi
men call the "cup-bone." so he crush hi cup-bone, and brake both
sinew withal, and the jag stone tore apart the skin. then the hero
stai fallen upon hi knee and with stout hand leant upon the earth;
and the dark of night veil hi ey. and now might aineia king of
men have perish, but that aphrodit daughter of zeu wa swift to
mark. about her dear son wound she her white arm, and spread befor hi
face a fold of her radiant vestur, to be a cover from the dart,
lest ani of the fleet-hors danaan might hurl the spear into hi
breast and take awai hi life.

so wa she bear her dear son awai from battl; but the son of
kapaneu forgat not the behest that diomed of the loud war-cry had
laid upon him; he refrain hi own whole-hoov hors awai from the
tumult, bind the rein tight to the chariot-rim, and leapt on the
sleek-coat hors of aineia, and drave them from the trojan to the
well-greav achaian, and gave them to deipylo hi dear comrad whom
he esteem abov all that were hi ag-fellow, becaus he wa
like-mind with himself; and bade him drive them to the hollow ship.
then did the hero mount hi own chariot and take the shine rein and
forthwith drive hi strong-hoov hors in quest of tydeid, eagerli.
now tydeid had made onslaught with pitiless weapon on kypri
[aphrodit], know how she wa a coward goddess and none of those that
have masteri in battl of the warrior. now when he had pursu her
through the dens throng and come on her, then great-heart tydeu' son
thrust with hi keen spear, and leapt on her and wound the skin of her
weak hand; straight through the ambrosi raiment that the grace
themselv had woven her pierc the dart into the flesh, abov the
spring of the palm. then flow the goddess's immort blood, such
ichor as floweth in the bless god; for thei eat no bread neither
drink thei gleam wine, wherefor thei ar bloodless and ar name
immort. and she with a great cry let fall her son: him phoebu apollo
took into hi arm and save him in a duski cloud, lest ani of the
fleet-hors danaan might hurl the spear into hi breast and take awai
hi life. but over her diomed of the loud war-cry shout afar:
"refrain thee, thou daughter of zeu, from war and fight. is it not
enough that thou beguilest feebl women? but if in battl thou wilt
mingl, verili i deem that thou shalt shudder at the name of battl, if
thou hear it even afar off."

so spake he, and she depart in amaz and wa sore troubl: and
wind-foot iri took her and led her from the throng torment with her
pain, and her fair skin wa stain. there found she impetu ar
sit, on the battl's left; and hi spear rest upon a cloud, and
hi fleet steed. then she fell on her knee and with instant prayer
besought of her dear brother hi golden-frontlet steed: "dear
brother, save me and give me thy steed, that i mai win to olympu,
where is the habit of the immort. sore am i afflict with a
wound wherewith a mortal smote me, even tydeid, who now would fight
even with father zeu."

so spake she, and ar gave her hi golden-frontlet steed, and she
mount on the chariot sore at heart. by her side mount iri, and in
her hand grasp the rein and lash the hors to start them; and
thei flew onward noth loth. thu soon thei came to the habit of
the god, even steep olympu. there wind-foot fleet iri loos the
hors from the chariot and stabl them, and set ambrosi forag
befor them; but fair aphrodit fell upon dion's knee that wa her
mother. she took her daughter in her arm and stroke her with her hand,
and spake and call upon her name: "who now of the son of heaven, dear
child, hath entreat thee thu wantonli, as though thou wert a
wrong-doer in the face of all?"

then laughter-love aphrodit made answer to her: "tydeu' son wound
me, high-heart diomed, becaus i wa save from the battl my dear
son aineia, who to me is dearest far of all men. for no more is the
fierc battl-cry for trojan and achaian, but the danaan now ar
fight even the immort."

then the fair goddess dion answer her: "be of good heart, my child,
and endur for all thy pain; for mani of us that inhabit the mansion of
olympu have suffer through men, in bring grievou woe on upon
anoth."

so sai with both hand she wipe the ichor from the arm; her arm wa
comfort, and the grievou pang assuag. but athen and hera beheld,
and with bitter word provok zeu the son, of krono. of them wa the
bright-ei goddess athen first to speak: "father zeu, wilt thou
inde be wroth with me whate'er i sai? verili i ween that kypri wa
urg some woman of achaia to join her unto the trojan whom she so
marvel loveth; and stroke such an on of the fair-robe women of
achaia, she tore upon the golden brooch her delic hand."

so spake she, and the father of god and men smile, and call unto him
golden aphrodit and said: "not unto thee, my child, ar given the work
of war; but follow thou after the love task of wedlock, and to all
these thing shall fleet ar and athen look."

now while thei thu spake in convers on with the other, diomed of
the loud war-cry leapt upon aineia, know full well that apollo
himself had spread hi arm over him; yet reverenc he not even the
great god, but still wa eager to slai aineia and strip from him hi
gloriou armour. so thrice he leapt on him, fain to slai him, and thrice
apollo beat back hi glitter shield. and when the fourth time he
sprang at him like a god, then apollo the far-darter spake to him with
terribl shout: "think, tydeid, and shrink, nor desir to match thy
spirit with god; see there is no comparison of the race of immort
god and of men that walk upon the earth."

so said he, and tydeid shrank a short space backward, to avoid the
wrath of apollo the far-darter. then apollo set aineia awai from the
throng in holi pergamo where hi templ stood. there leto and archer
artemi heal him in the mighti sanctuari, and gave him glori; but
apollo of the silver bow made a wraith like unto aineia' self, and in
such armour as hi; and over the wraith trojan and goodli achaian each
hew the other' buckler on their breast, their round shield and
flutter targ.

then to impetu ar said phoebu apollo: "ar, ar, blood-stain
bane of mortal, thou stormer of wall, wilt thou not follow after thi
man and withdraw him from the battl, thi tydeid, who now would fight
even with father zeu? first in close fight he wound kypri in her
hand hard by the wrist, and then sprang he upon myself like unto a god."

so sai he sate himself upon the height of pergamo, and bale ar
enter among the trojan rank and arous them in the like of fleet
akama, captain of the thracian. on the heaven-nurtur son of priam
he call sai: "o ye son of priam, the heaven-nurtur king, how
long will ye yet suffer your host to be slain of the achaian? shall it
be even until thei fight about our well-build gate? low lieth the
warrior whom we esteem like unto goodli hector, even aineia son of
anchis great of heart. go to now, let us save from the tumult our
valiant comrad."

so sai he arous the spirit and soul of everi man. thereat sarpedon
sore chode nobl hector: "hector, where now is the spirit gone that
erst thou hadst? thou saidst forsooth that without armi or alli thou
wouldest hold the citi, alon with thy sister' husband and thy
brother; but now can i not see ani of these neither perceiv them, but
thei ar cower like hound about a lion; and we ar fight that ar
but alli among you."

so spake sarpedon, and hi word stung hector to the heart, forthwith he
leapt from hi chariot in hi armour to the earth, and brandish two
keen spear went everywher through the host, urg them to fight, and
rous the dread battl-cry. so thei were ralli and stood to face the
achaian: and the argiv withstood them in close arrai and fled not.
even as a wind carrieth the chaff about the sacr thresh-floor when
men ar winnow, and the chaff-heap grow white--so now grew the
achaian white with fall dust which in their midst the hors' hoov
beat up into the brazen heaven, as fight wa join again, and the
chariot wheel round. thu bare thei forward the furi of their
hand: and impetu ar drew round them a veil of night to aid the
trojan in the battl, rang everywher. and apollo himself sent forth
aineia from hi rich sanctuari and put courag in the heart of him,
shepherd of the host. so aineia took hi place amid hi comrad, and
thei were glad to see him come among them aliv and sound and full of
valiant spirit. yet thei question him not at all, for all the toil
forbad them that the god of the silver bow wa stir and ar bane
of men and strife rage insati.

and on the other side the two aiant and odysseu and diomed stir
the danaan to fight; yet these of themselv fear neither the
trojan' violenc nor assault, but stood like mist that krono' son
setteth in windless air on the mountain top, at peac, while the might
of the north wind sleepeth and of all the violent wind that blow with
keen breath and scatter apart the shadow cloud. even so the danaan
withstood the trojan steadfastli and fled not. and atreid rang
through the throng exhort instantli: "my friend, quit you like men
and take heart of courag, and shun dishonour in on anoth's ey amid
the stress of battl. of men that shun dishonour more ar save than
slain, but for them that flee is neither glori found nor ani safeti."

so sai he dart swiftli with hi javelin and smote a foremost
warrior, even great-heart aineia' comrad deikoon son of pergaso,
whom the trojan held in like honour with priam's son, becaus he wa
swift to do battl amid the foremost. him lord agamemnon smote with hi
dart upon the shield, and it stai not the spear, but the point pass
through, so that he drave it through the belt into hi nethermost belli:
and he fell with a crash and hi armour clang upon him.

then did aineia slai two champion of the danaan, even the son of
diokl, krethon and orsilocho. like them, two lion on the mountain
top ar nurtur by their dam in the deep forest thicket; and these
harri the kine and goodli sheep and make havoc of the farmstead of men,
till in their turn thei too ar slain at men's hand with the keen
bronz; in such wise were these twain vanquish at aineia' hand and
fell like tall pine-tree.

but menelao dear to ar had piti of them in their fall, and strode
through the forefront, har in flash bronz, brandish hi
spear; and ar stir hi courag, with intent that he might fall
beneath aineia' hand. but antilocho, great-heart nestor's son,
beheld him, and strode through the forefront; becaus he fear
exceedingli for the shepherd of the host, lest aught befal him and
disappoint them utterli of their labour. so those two were now hold
forth their hand and sharp spear each against the other, eager to do
battl; when antilocho came and stood hard by the shepherd of the host.
but aineia face them not, keen warrior though he wa, when he beheld
two men abid side by side; so these hale awai the corps to the
achaian' host, and laid the hapless twain in their comrad' arm, and
themselv turn back and fought on amid the foremost.

but hector mark them across the rank, and sprang on them with a
shout, and the battalion of the trojan follow him in their might:
and ar led them on and dread enyo, she bring ruthless turmoil of
war, the while ar wield in hi hand hi monstrou spear, and rang
now befor hector's face, and now behind.

then diomed of the loud war-cry shudder to behold him; and even as a
shiftless man cross a great plain cometh on a swift-stream river
flow on to the sea, and see it boil with foam springeth backward,
even so now tydeid shrank back and spake to the host: "friend, how
marvel we that nobl hector is a spearman and bold man of war! yet ever
is there besid him some god that wardeth off destruct; even as now
ar is there by him in like of a mortal man. but with face toward
the trojan still give ground backward, neither be desir to fight
amain with god."

now the argiv befor the face of ar and mail-clad hector neither
turn them round about toward their black ship, nor charg forward in
battl, but still fell backward, when thei heard of ar amid the
trojan. but when the white-arm goddess hera mark them make havoc
of the argiv in the press of battl, anon she spake wing word to
athen: "out on it, thou daughter of aegi-bear zeu, unweari
maiden! wa it for naught we pledg our word to menelao, that he
should not depart till he had laid wast well-wall ilio,--if thu we
let bale ar rage? go to now, let us twain also take thought of
impetu valour."

so said she, and the bright-ei goddess athen disregard not. so hera
the goddess queen, daughter of krono, went her wai to har the
gold-frontlet steed. and athen, daughter of aegi-bear zeu, cast
down at her father's threshold her woven vestur mani-colour, that
herself had wrought and her hand had fashion, and put on her the
tunic of zeu the cloud-gather, and arrai her in her armour for
dolor battl. about her shoulder cast she the tassel aegi
terribl, whereon is panic as a crown all round about, and strife is
therein and valour and horribl onslaught withal, and therein is the
dread monster's gorgon head, dread and grim, portent of
aegi-bear zeu. upon her head set she the two-crest golden helm
with fourfold plate, bedeck with men-at-arm of a hundr citi. upon
the flame chariot set she her foot, and grasp her heavi spear, great
and stout, wherewith she vanquisheth the rank of men, even of hero
with whom she of the aw sire is wroth. then hera swiftli smote the
hors with the lash; self-move groan upon their hing the gate of
heaven whereof the hour ar warder, to whom is commit great heaven
and olympu, whether to throw open the thick cloud or set it to. there
through the gate guid thei their hors patient of the lash. and thei
found the son of krono sit apart from all the god on the topmost
peak of mani-ridg olympu. then the white-arm goddess hera stai
her hors and question the most high zeu, the son of krono, and
said: "father zeu, hast thou no indign with ar for these violent
deed? how great and goodli a compani of achaian hath he destroi
recklessli and in unruli wise, unto my sorrow. but here in peac kypri
and apollo of the silver bow take their pleasur, have set on thi mad
on that knoweth not ani law. father zeu, wilt thou at all be wroth
with me if i smite ar and chase him from the battl in sorri plight?"

and zeu the cloud-gather answer and said to her: "go to now, set
upon him athen driver of the spoil, who most is wont to bring sore pain
upon him."

so spake he, and the white-arm goddess hera disregard not, and
lash her hors; thei noth loth flew on between earth and starri
heaven. as far as a man seeth with hi ey into the haze of distanc as
he sitteth on a place of outlook and gazeth over the wine-dark sea, so
far leap the loudli neigh hors of the god. now when thei came to
troi and the two flow river, even to where simoei and skamandro
join their stream, there the white-arm goddess hera stai her hors
and loos them from the car and pour thick mist round about them, and
simoei made ambrosia spring up for them to graze. so the goddess went
their wai with step like unto turtl-dove, be fain to bring succour
to the men of argo. and when thei were now come where the most and most
valiant stood, throng about mighti diomed tamer of hors, in the
semblanc of raven lion or wild boar whose strength is nowis
feebl, then stood the white-arm goddess hera and shout in the
like of great-heart stentor with voic of bronz, whose cry wa
loud as the cry of fifti other men: "fie upon you, argiv, base thing
of shame, so brave in semblanc! while yet nobl achil enter
continu into battl, then issu not the trojan even from the
dardanian gate; for thei had dread of hi terribl spear. but now fight
thei far from the citi at the hollow ship."

so sai she arous the spirit and soul of everi man. and to tydeid'
side sprang the bright-ei goddess athen. that lord she found besid
hi hors and chariot, cool the wound that pandaro with hi dart
had pierc, for hi sweat vex it by reason of the broad baldrick of
hi round shield; therewith wa he vex and hi arm grew weari, so he
wa lift up the baldrick and wipe awai the duski blood. then the
goddess laid her hand on hi hors' yoke, and said: "of a truth tydeu
begat a son littl after hi own like. tydeu wa short of statur,
but a man of war."

and stalwart diomed made answer to her and said: "i know thee, goddess
daughter of aegi-bear zeu: therefor with my whole heart will i
tell thee my thought and hide it not. neither hath dishearten terror
taken hold upon me, nor ani faint, but i am still mind of thy
behest that thou didst lai upon me. thou forbadest me to fight face to
face with all the bless god, save onli if zeu' daughter aphrodit
should enter into battl, then to wound her with the keen bronz.
therefor do i now give ground myself and have bidden all the argiv
likewis to gather here togeth; for i discern ar lord it in the
frai."

then the bright-ei goddess athen answer him: "diomed son of
tydeu, thou joi of mine heart, fear thou, for that, neither ar nor
ani other of the immort; so great a helper am i to thee. go to now,
at ar first guid thou thy whole-hoov hors, and smite him hand to
hand, nor have ani aw of impetu ar, rave here, a curs incarn,
the renegad that of late in convers with me and hera pledg him
to fight against the trojan and give succour to the argiv, but now
consorteth with the trojan and hath forgotten these."

so speak, with her hand she drew back sthenelo and thrust him from
the chariot to earth, and instantli leapt he down; so the goddess
mount the car by nobl diomed' side right eagerli. the oaken axl
creak loud with it burden, bear the dread goddess and the man of
might. then athen grasp the whip and rein; forthwith against ar
first guid she the whole-hoov hors. now he wa strip huge
peripha, most valiant far of the aitolian, ochesio' gloriou son. him
wa blood-stain ar strip; and athen don the helm of hade,
that terribl ar might not behold her. now when ar scourg of
mortal beheld nobl diomed, he left huge peripha ly there, where
at the first he had slain him and taken awai hi life, and made straight
at diomed tamer of hors. now when thei were come nigh in onset on
on anoth, first ar thrust over the yoke and hors's rein with
spear of bronz, eager to take awai hi life. but the bright-ei
goddess athen with her hand seiz the spear and thrust it up over the
car, to spend itself in vain. next diomed of the loud war-cry attack
with spear of bronz; and athen drave it home against ar' nethermost
belli, where hi taslet were girt about him. there smote he him and
wound him, rend through hi fair skin, and pluck forth the spear
again. then brazen ar bellow loud as nine thousand warrior or ten
thousand cry in battl as thei join in strife and frai. thereat
trembl gat hold of achaian and trojan for fear, so mightili
bellow ar insati of battl.

even as gloomi mist appeareth from the cloud when after beat a stormi
wind ariseth, even so to tydeu' son diomed brazen ar appear amid
cloud, fare to wide heaven. swiftli came he to the god' dwell,
steep olympu, and sat besid zeu son of krono with grief at heart,
and shew the immort blood flow from the wound, and piteous
spake to him wing word: "father zeu, hast thou no indign to
behold these violent deed? for ever cruelli suffer we god by on
anoth's devic, in shew men grace. with thee ar we all at
varianc, becaus thou didst beget that reckless maiden and bale,
whose thought is ever of iniquit deed. for all the other god that
ar in olympu hearken to thee, and we ar subject everi on; onli her
thou chastenest not, neither in deed nor word, but settest her on,
becaus thi pestil on is thine own offspr. now hath she urg on
tydeu' son, even overween diomed, to rage furious against the
immort god. kypri first he wound in close fight, in the wrist of
her hand, and then assail he me, even me, with the might of a god.
howbeit my swift feet bare me awai; els had i long endur anguish
there amid the grisli heap of dead, or els had live strengthless from
the smite of the spear."

then zeu the cloud-gather look sternli at him and said: "nai, thou
renegad, sit not by me and whine. most hate to me art thou of all
god that dwell in olympu: thou ever lovest strife and war and
battl. truli thy mother's spirit is intoler, unyield, even
hera's; her can i scarc rule with word. therefor i deem that by her
prompt thou art in thi plight. yet will i no longer endur to see
thee in anguish; mine offspr art thou, and to me thy mother bare
thee."

so spake he and bade paieon heal him.  and paieon laid assuag drug
upon the wound. even as fig juic maketh hast to thicken white milk,
that is liquid but curdleth speedili as a man stirreth, even so swiftli
heal he impetu ar. and hebe bath him, and cloth him in
graciou raiment, and he sate him down by zeu son of krono, glori
in hi might.

then fare the twain back to the mansion of great zeu, even hera and
athen, have stai ar scourg of mortal from hi man-slai.



book vi.

    how diomed and glauko, be about to fight, were known
    to each other, and part in friendli. and how hector
    return to the citi bade farewel to andromach hi wife.

so wa the dread frai of trojan and achaian left to itself, and the
battl swai oft thi wai and that across the plain, as thei aim
against each other their bronz-shod javelin, between simoei and the
stream of xantho.

now had the trojan been chase again by the achaian, dear to ar, up
into ilio, in their weak overcom, but that prism's son heleno,
far best of augur, stood by aineia' side and hector's, and spake to
them: "aineia and hector, see that on you lieth the task of war in
chief of trojan and lykian, becaus for everi issu ye ar foremost
both for fight and counsel, stand ye your ground, and rang the host
everywhith to ralli them befor the gate, er yet thei fall flee
in their women's arm, and be made a rejoic to the foe. then when ye
have arous all our battalion we will abid here and fight the
danaan, though in sore weari; for necess presseth us hard: but
thou, hector, go into the citi, and speak there to thy mother and mine;
let her gather the ag wive to bright-ei athen's templ in the
upper citi, and with her kei open the door of the holi hous; and let
her lai the robe, that seemeth to her the most graciou and greatest in
her hall and far dearest unto herself, upon the knee of
beauteou-hair athen; and vow to her to sacrific in her templ
twelv sleek kine, that have not felt the goad, if she will have merci
on the citi and the trojan' wive and littl children. so mai she
perchanc hold back tydeu' son from holi ilio, the furiou spearman,
the mighti devis of rout, whom in good sooth i deem to have prove
himself mightiest of the achaian. never in thi wise fear we
achil, princ of men, who thei sai is born of a goddess; nai, but he
that we see is beyond measur furiou; none can match him for might."

so spake he, and hector disregard not hi brother's word, but leapt
forthwith from hi chariot in hi armour to earth, and brandish two
sharp spear pass everywher through the host, rous them to battl,
and stir the dread war-cry. so thei were ralli and stood to face
the achaian, and the argiv gave ground and ceas from slaughter, and
deem that some immort had descend from starri heaven to bring the
trojan succour, in such wise ralli thei. then hector call to the
trojan with far-reach shout: "o high-soul trojan and ye far-fame
alli, quit you like men, my friend, and take thought of impetu
courag, while i depart to ilio and bid the elder of the council and
our wive prai to the god and vow them hecatomb."

so sai hector of the glanc helm depart, and the black hide beat
on either side against hi ankl and hi neck, even the rim that ran
uttermost about hi boss shield.

now glauko son of hippolocho and tydeu' son met in the mid-space of
the foe, eager to do battl. thu when the twain were come nigh in
onset on each other, to him first spake diomed of the loud war-cry:
"who art thou, nobl sir, of mortal men? for never have i beheld thee in
gloriou battl er thi, yet now hast thou far outstrip all men in
thy hardihood, see thou abidest my far-shadow spear. luckless ar
the father whose children face my might. but if thou art some immort
come down from heaven, then will not i fight with heavenli god. but if
thou art of men that eat the fruit of the field, come nigh, that anon
thou mayest enter the toil of destruct."

then hippolocho' gloriou son made answer to him: "great-heart
tydeid, why enquirest thou of my gener? even as ar the
gener of leav such ar those likewis of men; the leav that be
the wind scattereth on the earth, and the forest buddeth and putteth
forth more again, when the season of spring is at hand; so of the
gener of men on putteth forth and anoth ceaseth. yet if thou
wilt, have thine answer, that thou mayest well know our lineag, whereof
mani men have knowledg. hippolocho, son of bellerophon, begat me, and
of him do i declar me to be sprung; he sent me to troi and bade me veri
instantli to be ever the best and to excel all other men, nor put to
shame the lineag of my father that were of noblest blood in ephyr and
in wide lykia. thi is the lineag and blood whereof i avow myself to
be."

so said he, and diomed of the loud war-cry wa glad. he plant hi
spear in the bounteou earth and with soft word spake to the shepherd
of the host: "sure then thou art to me a guest-friend of old time
through my father: for goodli oineu of yore entertain nobl
bellerophon in hi hall and kept him twenti dai. moreov thei gave
each the other goodli gift of friendship; oineu gave a belt bright
with purpl, and bellerophon a gold two-handl cup. therefor now am i
to thee a dear guest-friend in midmost argo, and thou in lykia,
whene'er i fare to your land. so let us shun each other's spear, even
amid the throng; trojan ar there in multitud and famou alli for
me to slai, whoe'er it be that god vouchsafeth me and my feet overtak;
and for thee ar there achaian in multitud, to slai whome'er thou
canst. but let us make exchang of arm between us, that these also mai
know how we avow ourselv to be guest-friend by lineag."

so spake the twain, and leap from their car clasp each the other
by hi hand, and pledg their faith. but now zeu son of krono took
from glauko hi wit, in that he made exchang with diomed tydeu'
son of golden armour for bronz, the price of five score oxen for the
price of nine.

now when hector came to the skaian gate and to the oak tree, there came
run round about him the trojan' wive and daughter, enquir of
son and brethren and friend and husband. but he bade them thereat all
in turn prai to the god; but sorrow hung over mani.

but when he came to priam's beauti palac, adorn with polish
colonnad--and in it were fifti chamber of polish stone, build
hard by on anoth, wherein priam's son slept besid their wed
wive; and for hi daughter over against them on the other side within
the courtyard were twelv roof chamber of polish stone build hard
by on anoth, wherein slept priam's son-in-law besid their chast
wive--then came there to meet him hi bounti mother, lead with
her laodik, fairest of her daughter to look on; and she clasp her
hand in hi, and spake, and call upon hi name: "my son, why hast thou
left violent battl to come hither. sure the son of the
achaian--name of evil!--press thee hard in fight about thy citi, and so
thy spirit hath brought thee hither, to come and stretch forth thy hand
to zeu from the citadel. but tarri till i bring thee honei-sweet wine,
that thou mayest pour libat to zeu and all the immort first, and
then shalt thou thyself also be refresh if thou wilt drink. when a man
is aweari wine greatli maketh hi strength to wax, even as thou art
aweari in fight for thy fellow."

then great hector of the glanc helm answer her: "bring me no
honei-heart wine, my ladi mother, lest thou crippl me of my courag
and i be forget of my might. but go thou to the templ of athen,
driver of the spoil, with offer, and gather the ag wive togeth;
and the robe that seemeth to thee the most graciou and greatest in thy
palac, and dearest unto thyself, that lai thou upon the knee of
beauteou-hair athen, and vow to her to sacrific in her templ
twelv sleek kine, that have not felt the goad, if she will have merci
on the citi and the trojan' wive and littl children. so go thou to
the templ of athen, driver of the spoil; and i will go after pari, to
summon him, if perchanc he will hearken to my voic. would that the
earth forthwith might swallow him up! the olympian foster him to be a
sore bane to the trojan and to great-heart priam, and to priam's
son. if i but saw him go down to the gate of death, then might i
deem that my heart had forgotten it sorrow."

so said he, and she went unto the hall, and call to her handmaiden,
and thei gather the ag wive throughout the citi. then she herself
went down to her fragrant chamber where were her embroid robe, the
work of sidonian women, whom godlik alexandro himself brought from
sidon, when he sail over the wide sea, that journei wherein he brought
home high-born helen. of these hekab took on to bear for an offer
to athen, the on that wa fairest for adorn and greatest, and
shone like a star, and lai nethermost of all. then went she her wai and
the multitud of ag wive hast after her. and hector wa come to
alexandro' fair palac, that himself had build with them that were
most excel carpent then in deep-soil troi-land; these made him
hi chamber and hall and courtyard hard by to priam and hector, in the
upper citi. there enter in hector dear to zeu, and hi hand bare hi
spear, eleven cubit long: befor hi face glitter the bronz
spear-point, and a ring of gold ran round about it. and he found pari
in hi chamber busi with hi beauteou arm, hi shield and
breastplat, and handl hi curv bow; and helen of argo sate among
her serv-women and appoint brave handiwork for her handmaiden.
then when hector saw him he rebuk him with scorn word: "good sir,
thou dost not well to cherish thi rancour in thy heart. the folk ar
perish about the citi and high wall in battl, and for thy sake the
battl-cry is kindl and war around thi citi; ye thyself wouldest
thou fall out with anoth, didst thou see him shrink from hate
war. up then, lest the citi soon be scorch with burn fire."

and godlik alexandro answer him: "hector, sinc in measur thou
chidest me and not beyond measur, therefor will i tell thee; lai thou
it to thine heart and hearken to me. not by reason so much of the
trojan, for wrath and indign, sate i me in my chamber, but fain
would i yield me to my sorrow. even now my wife hath persuad me with
soft word, and urg me into battl; and i moreov, even i, deem that
it will be better so; for victori shifteth from man to man. go to then,
tarri awhil, let me put on my armour of war; or els fare thou forth,
and i will follow; and i think to overtak thee."

so said he, but hector of the glanc helm answer him not a word. but
helen spake to him with gentl word: "my brother, even mine that am a
dog, mischiev and abomin, would that on the dai when my mother
bare me at the first, an evil storm-wind had caught me awai to a
mountain or a billow of the loud-sound sea, where the billow might
have swept me awai befor all these thing came to pass. howbeit, see
the god devis all these ill in thi wise, would that then i had been
mate with a better man, that felt dishonour and the multitud of men's
reproach. but as for him, neither hath he now sound heart, nor ever
will have; thereof deem i moreov that he will reap the fruit. but now
come, enter in and sit thee here upon thi bench, my brother, sinc thy
heart chiefli troubl hath encompass, for the sake of me, that am a
dog, and for alexandro' sin; on whom zeu bringeth evil doom, that even
in dai to come we mai be a song in the ear of men that shall be
hereaft."

then great hector of the glanc helm answer her: "bid me not sit,
helen, of thy love; thou wilt not persuad me. alreadi my heart is set
to succour the men of troi, that have great desir for me that am not
with them. but rous thou thi fellow, yea let himself make speed, to
overtak me yet within the citi. for i shall go into mine hous to
behold my housefolk and my dear wife, and infant boi; for i know not if
i shall return home to them again, or if the god will now overthrow me
at the hand of the achaian."

so spake hector of the glanc helm and depart; and anon he came to
hi well-stablish hous. but he found not white-arm andromach in
the hall; she with her boi and fair-robe handmaiden had taken her
stand upon the tower, weep and wail. and when hector found not hi
nobl wife within, he came and stood upon the threshold and spake amid
the serv women: "come tell me now true, my serv women. whither
went white-arm andromach forth from the hall? hath she gone out to my
sister or unto my brother' fair-robe wive, or to athen's templ,
where all the fair-tress trojan women propiti the aw goddess?"

then a busi housedam spake in answer to him: "hector, see thou
straitli chargest us tell thee true, neither hath she gone out to ani of
thy sister or thy brother' fair-robe wive, neither to athen's
templ, where all the fair-tress trojan women ar propiti the
aw goddess; but she went to the great tower of ilio, becaus she
heard the trojan were hard press, and great victori wa for the
achaian. so hath she come in hast to the wall, like unto on frenzi;
and the nurs with her beareth the child."

so spake the housedam, and hector hasten from hi hous back by the
same wai down the well-build street. when he had pass through the
great citi and wa come to the skaian gate, wherebi he wa mind to
issu upon the plain, then came hi dear-won wife, run to meet him,
even andromach daughter of great-heart eetion. so she met him now,
and with her went the handmaid bear in her bosom the tender boi, the
littl child, hector's love son, like unto a beauti star. him hector
call skamandrio, but all the folk astyanax [astyanax = "citi king."];
for onli hector guard ilio. so now he smile and gaze at hi boi
silent, and andromach stood by hi side weep, and clasp her hand
in hi, and spake and call upon hi name. "dear my lord, thi thy
hardihood will undo thee, neither hast thou ani piti for thine infant
boi, nor for me forlorn that soon shall be thy widow; for soon will the
achaian all set upon thee and slai thee. but it were better for me to
go down to the grave if i lose thee; for never more will ani comfort be
mine, when onc thou, even thou, hast met thy fate, but onli sorrow.
nai, hector, thou art to me father and ladi mother, yea and brother,
even as thou art my goodli husband. come now, have piti and abid here
upon the tower, lest thou make thy child an orphan and thy wife a
widow."

then great hector of the glanc helm answer her: "sure i take
thought for all these thing, my wife; but i have veri sore shame of the
trojan and trojan dame with trail robe, if like a coward i shrink
awai from battl. moreov mine own soul forbiddeth me, see i have
learnt ever to be valiant and fight in the forefront of the trojan,
win my father's great glori and mine own. yea of a sureti i know
thi in heart and soul; the dai shall come for holi ilio to be laid
low, and priam and the folk of priam of the good ashen spear. yet doth
the anguish of the trojan hereaft not so much troubl me, neither
hekab's own, neither king priam's, neither my brethren's, the mani and
brave that shall fall in the dust befor their foemen, as doth thine
anguish in the dai when some mail-clad achaian shall lead thee weep
and rob thee of the light of freedom. so shalt thou abid in argo and
ply the loom at anoth woman's bid, and bear water from fount
messei or hypereia, be grievous entreat, and sore constraint
shall be laid upon thee. and then shall on sai that beholdeth thee
weep: 'thi is the wife of hector, that wa foremost in battl of the
hors-tame trojan when men fought about ilio.' thu shall on sai
hereaft, and fresh grief will be thine for lack of such an husband as
thou hadst to ward off the dai of thraldom. but me in death mai the
heap-up earth be cover, er i hear thy cry and thy carri into
captiv."

so spake gloriou hector, and stretch out hi arm to hi boi. but the
child shrunk cry to the bosom of hi fair-girdl nurs, dismai at
hi dear father's aspect, and in dread at the bronz and hors-hair
crest that he beheld nod fierc from the helmet's top. then hi
dear father laugh aloud, and hi ladi mother; forthwith gloriou
hector took the helmet from hi head, and laid it, all gleam, upon
the earth; then kiss he hi dear son and dandl him in hi arm, and
spake in prayer to zeu and all the god, "o zeu and all ye god,
vouchsaf ye that thi my son mai likewis prove even as i, pre-emin
amid the trojan, and as valiant in might, and be a great king of ilio.
then mai men sai of him, 'far greater is he than hi father' as he
returneth home from battl; and mai he bring with him blood-stain
spoil from the foeman he hath slain, and mai hi mother's heart be
glad."

so spake he, and laid hi son in hi dear wife's arm; and she took him
to her fragrant bosom, smile tearfulli. and her husband had piti to
see her, and caress her with hi hand, and spake and call upon her
name: "dear on, i prai thee be not of oversorrow heart; no man
against my fate shall hurl me to hade; onli destini, i ween, no man
hath escap, be he coward or be he valiant, when onc he hath been
born. but go thou to thine hous and see to thine own task, the loom
and distaff, and bid thine handmaiden ply their work; but for war shall
men provid, and i in chief of all men that dwell in ilio."

so spake gloriou hector, and took up hi hors-hair crest helmet; and
hi dear wife depart to her home, oft look back, and let fall
big tear. anon she came to the well-stablish hous of man-slai
hector, and found therein her mani handmaiden, and stir lament
in them all. so bewail thei hector, while yet he live, within hi
hous: for thei deem that he would no more come back to them from
battl, nor escap the furi of the hand of the achaian.

neither linger pari long in hi lofti hous, but cloth on him hi
brave armour, bedight with bronz, and hast through the citi, trust
to hi nimbl feet. even as when a stall hors, full-fed at the
manger, breaketh hi tether and speedeth at the gallop across the plain,
be wont to bath him in the fair-flow stream, exultingli; and
holdeth hi head on high, and hi mane floateth about hi shoulder, and
he trusteth in hi glori, and nimbl hi limb bear him to the haunt
and pasturag of mare; even so priam's son pari, glitter in hi
armour like the shine sun, strode down from high pergamo laughingli,
and hi swift feet bare him. forthwith he overtook hi brother nobl
hector, even as he wa on the point to turn him awai from the spot where
he had dalli with hi wife. to him first spake godlik alexandro:
"sir, in good sooth i have delai thee in thine hast by my tarri,
and came not rightli as thou badest me."

and hector of the glanc helm answer him and said: "good brother, no
man that is rightmind could make light of thy do in fight, see
thou art strong: but thou art wilfulli remiss and hast no care; and for
thi my heart is griev within me, that i hear shame word
concern thee in the trojan' mouth, who for thy sake endur much
toil. but let us be go; all thi will we make good hereaft, if zeu
ever vouchsaf us to set befor the heavenli god that ar for
everlast the cup of deliver in our hall, when we have chase out
of troi-land the well-greav achaian."



book vii.

    of the singl combat between aia and hector, and of the
    buri of the dead, and the build of a wall about the
    achaian ship.

so spake gloriou hector and issu from the gate, and with him went
hi brother alexandro; and both were eager of soul for fight and
battl. even as god giveth to long seamen fair wind when thei have
grown weari of beat the main with polish oar, and their limb ar
fordon with toil, even so appear these to the long trojan.

now when the goddess bright-ei athen mark them make havoc of the
argiv in the press of battl, she dart down from the crest of
olympu to holi ilio. but apollo rose to meet her, for he beheld her
from pergamo, and would have victori for the trojan. so the twain met
each the other by the oak-tree. to her spake first king apollo son of
zeu: "why now art thou come thu eagerli from olympu, thou daughter of
great zeu, and why hath thy high heart sent thee? sure it is to give
the danaan unequ victori in battl! see thou hast no merci on the
trojan, that perish. but if thou wouldest hearken to me--and it were
far better so--let us now stai battl and war for the dai; hereaft
shall thei fight again, till thei reach the goal of ilio, sinc thu it
seemeth good to your heart, goddess immort, to lai wast thi
citi."

and the goddess bright-ei athen made answer to him: "so be it,
far-darter; in thi mind i likewis came from olympu to the midst of
trojan and achaian. but come, how thinkest thou to stai the battl of
the warrior?"

and king apollo, son of zeu, made answer to her: "let us arous the
stalwart spirit of hors-tame hector, if so be he will challeng some
on of the danaan in singl fight man to man to meet him in deadli
combat. so shall the bronz-greav achaian be jealou and stir up on
to fight singli with goodli hector." so spake he and the bright-ei
goddess athen disregard not. now heleno priam's dear son understood
in spirit their resolv that the god in counsel had approv; and he
went to hector and stood besid him, and spake a word to him: "hector
son of priam, peer of zeu in counsel, wouldest thou now hearken at all
to me? for i am thy brother. make the other trojan sit, and all the
achaian, and thyself challeng him that is best of the achaian to meet
thee man to man in deadli combat. it is not yet thy destini to die and
meet thy doom; for thu heard i the voic of the god that ar from
everlast." so said he, and hector rejoic greatli to hear hi
sai, and went into the midst and refrain the battalion of the
trojan with hi spear grasp by the middl; and thei all sate them
down: and agamemnon made the well-greav achaian sit. and athen
withal and apollo of the silver bow, in the like of vultur bird,
sate them upon a tall oak holi to aegi-bear father zeu, rejoic
in their warrior; and the rank of all of them sate close togeth,
bristl with shield and plume and spear. even as there spreadeth
across the main the rippl of the west wind newli risen, and the sea
grow black beneath it, so sate the rank of achaian and trojan upon
the plain. and hector spake between both host: "hearken to me, trojan
and well-greav achaian, that i mai speak what my mind within my
breast biddeth me. our oath of truce krono' son, enthron on high,
accomplish not; but evil is hi intent and ordin for both our
host, until either ye take fair-tower troi or yourselv be
vanquish besid your seafar ship. but in the midst of you ar the
chiefest of all the achaian; therefor now let the man whose heart
biddeth him fight with me come hither from among you all to be your
champion against goodli hector. and thi declar i, and be zeu our
wit thereto; if that man slai me with the long-edg sword, let him
spoil me of my armour and bear it to the hollow ship, but give back my
bodi to my home, that trojan and trojan' wive mai give me my due of
burn in my death. but if i slai him and apollo vouchsaf me glori, i
will spoil him of hi armour and bear it to holi ilio and hang it upon
the templ of far-dart apollo, but hi corps will i render back to
the well-deck ship, that the flow-hair achaian mai entomb him,
and build him a barrow besid wide hellespont. so shall on sai even of
men that be late born, as he saileth in hi bench ship over the
wine-dark sea: 'thi is the barrow of a man that di in dai of old, a
champion whom gloriou hector slew.' so shall a man sai hereaft, and
thi my glori shall never die."

so spake he and thei all were silent and held their peac; to deni him
thei were asham, and fear to meet him. but at the last stood up
menelao and spake amid them and chide upbraid them, and groan
deep at heart: "ah me, vain threaten, ye women of achaia and no more
men, sure all thi shall be a shame, evil of evil, if no on of the
danaan now goeth to meet hector. nai, turn ye all to earth and water,
sit there each man dishearten, helplessli inglori; against him
will i myself arrai me; and from on high the thread of victori ar
guid of the immort god."

so spake he and don hi fair armour. and now, o menelao, had the end
of life appear for thee at hector's hand, see he wa stronger far,
but that the princ of the achaian start up and caught thee. and
atreu' son himself, wide-rule agamemnon, took him by hi right hand
and spake a word and call upon hi name: "thou doest madli, menelao
fosterl of zeu; yet is it no time for thi thy mad. draw back,
though it be with pain, nor think for content's sake to fight with
on better than thou, with hector priam's son, whom other besid thee
abhor. yea, thi man even achil dreadeth to meet in battl, wherein
is the warrior's glori; and achil is better far than thou. go
therefor now and sit amid the compani of thy fellow; against him shall
the achaian put forth anoth champion. fearless though he be and
insati of turmoil, i ween that he shall be fain to rest hi knee, if
he escap from the furi of war and terribl frai."

so spake the hero and persuad hi brother's heart with just counsel;
and he obei. so hi squir thereat with glad took hi armour from
hi shoulder; and nestor stood up and spake amid the argiv: "fie upon
it, verili sore lament cometh on the land of achaia. verili old
peleu driver of chariot would groan sore, that goodli counsellor of
the myrmidon and orat, who erst question me in hi hous, and
rejoic greatli, inquir of the lineag and birth of all the argiv.
if he heard now of those that all were cower befor hector, then
would he lift hi hand to the immort, instantli prai that hi
soul might depart from hi limb down to the hous of hade. would to
god i were thu young and my strength were sound; then would hector of
the glanc helm soon find hi combat. but of those of you that be
chieftain of the host of the achaian, yet desireth no man of good
heart to meet hector face to face." so the old man upbraid them, and
there stood up nine in all. far first aros agamemnon king of men, and
after him rose tydeu' son stalwart diomed, and after them the aiant
cloth with impetu might, and after them idomeneu and idomeneu'
brother-in-arm merion, peer of enyalio slayer of men, and after them
eurypylo euaimon's gloriou son; and up rose thoa andraimon's son and
goodli odysseu. so all these were fain to fight with goodli hector. and
among them spake again knightli nestor of gerenia: "now cast ye the lot
from the first unto the last, for him that shall be chosen: for he shall
in truth profit the well-greav achaian, yea and he shall have profit
of hi own soul, if he escap from the furi of war and terribl frai."

so said he, and thei mark each man hi lot and cast them in the helmet
of agamemnon atreu' son; and the host prai and lift up their hand
to the god. and thu would on sai, look up to wide heaven: "o
father zeu, vouchsaf that the lot fall upon aia or tydeu' son, or
els on the king of myken rich in gold."

so spake thei, and knightli nestor of gerenia shook the helmet, and
there leapt forth the lot that themselv desir, even the lot of aia.
and aia saw and knew the token upon the lot, and rejoic in heart, and
spake: "my friend, verili the lot is mine, yea and myself am glad at
heart, becaus i deem that i shall vanquish goodli hector. but come now,
while i cloth me in my armour of battl, prai ye the while to krono'
son king zeu, in silenc to yourselv, that the trojan hear you
not--nai rather, openli if ye will, for we have no fear of ani man
soever. for none by forc shall chase me, he will me unwil,
neither by skill; see i hope that not so skill-less, either, wa i
born in salami nor nurtur."

so said he, and thei prai to krono' son, king zeu; and thu would
on speak, look up to wide heaven: "o father zeu that rulest from
ida, most gloriou, most great, vouchsaf to aia victori and the
win of great glori. but if thou so lovest hector inde, and carest
for him, grant unto either equal prowess and renown."

so said thei, while aia arrai him in flash bronz. and when he had
now cloth upon hi flesh all hi armour, then march he as huge ar
come forth, when he goeth to battl amid hero whom krono' son
setteth to fight in furi of heart-consum strife. so rose up huge
aia, bulwark of the achaian, with a smile on hi grim face: and went
with long stride of hi feet beneath him, shake hi far-shadow
spear. then moreov the argiv rejoic to look upon him, but sore
trembl came upon the trojan, on the limb of everi man, and hector's
own heart beat within hi breast. but in no wise could he now flee nor
shrink back into the throng of the host, see he had challeng him to
battl. and aia came near bear hi tower-like shield of bronz, with
sevenfold ox-hide, and stood near to hector, and spake to him threaten:
"hector, now verili shalt thou well know, man to man, what manner
of princ the danaan likewis have among them, even after achil,
render of men, the lion-heart. but he amid hi beak seafar ship
lieth in sore wrath with agamemnon shepherd of the host; yet ar we such
as to face thee, yea and mani of us. but make thou begin of war and
battl."

and great hector of the glanc helm answer him: "aia of the seed of
zeu, son of telamon, chieftain of the host, tempt not thou me like some
puni boi or woman that knoweth not deed of battl. but i well know war
and slaughter. to right know i, to left know i the wield of my
tough targ; therein i deem is stalwart soldiership. and i know how to
charg into the mellai of fleet chariot, and how in close battl to
join in furiou ar' danc. howbeit, i have no mind to smite thee,
be such an on as thou art, by spy thee unawar; but rather
openli, if perchanc i mai hit thee."

he spake, and pois hi far-shadow spear, and hurl and smote aia'
dread shield of sevenfold hide upon the uttermost bronz, the eighth
layer that wa thereon. through six fold went the stubborn bronz
cleav, but in the seventh hide it stai. then heaven-sprung aia
hurl next hi far-shadow spear, and smote upon the circl of the
shield of priam's son. through the bright shield pass the violent
spear, and through the curious wrought corslet press it on; and
straight forth besid the flank the spear rent hi doublet; but he
swerv asid and escap black death. then both togeth with their
hand pluck forth their long spear and fell to like raven lion or
wild boar whose might is nowis feebl. then priam's son smote the
shield's midst with hi dart, but the bronz brake not through, for the
point turn back; but aia leapt on him and pierc hi buckler, and
straight through went the spear and stagger him in hi onset, and
cleft it wai unto hi neck, so that the dark blood gush up. yet even
then did not hector of the glanc helm ceas from fight, but yield
ground and with stout hand seiz a stone ly upon the plain, black
and rug and great; therewith hurl he and smote aia' dread shield
of sevenfold ox-hide in the midst upon the boss, and the bronz
resound. next aia lift a far greater stone, and swung and hurl
it, put might immeasur therein. so smote he the buckler and
burst it inward with the rock like unto a millston, and beat down hi
knee; and he wa stretch upon hi back, press into hi shield; but
apollo straightwai rais him up. and now had thei been smite hand to
hand with sword, but that the herald, messeng of god and men,
came, on from the trojan, on from the mail-clad achaian, even
talthybio and idaio, both men discreet. between the two held thei
their stave, and herald idaio spake a word, be skill in wise
counsel: "fight ye no more, dear son, neither do battl; see zeu
the cloud-gather loveth you both, and both ar men of war; that verili
know we all. but night alreadi is upon us: it is well withal to obei the
hest [behest] of night."

then telamonian aia answer and said to him: "idaio, bid ye hector
to speak those word; of hi own self he challeng to combat all our
best. let him be first, and i will sure follow as he saith."

then great hector of the glanc helm said to him: "aia, see god
gave thee statur and might and wisdom, and with the spear thou art
excel abov all the achaian, let us now ceas from combat and
battl for the dai; but hereaft will we fight until god judg between
as, give to on of us the victori: but come, let us give each the
other famou gift, that men mai thu sai, achaian alik and trojan:
'these, have fought for sake of heart-consum strife, part again
reconcil in friendship.'"

so said he, and gave him hi silver-stud sword, with scabbard and
well-cut baldrick; and aia gave hi belt bright with purpl. so thei
part, and on went to the achaian host, and on betook him to the
throng of trojan. and these rejoic to behold him come to them aliv
and sound, escap from the furi of aia and hi hand unapproach;
and thei brought him to the citi save beyond their hope. and aia on
their side the well-greav achaian brought to nobl agamemnon,
exult in hi victori.

so when these were come unto the hut of atreid, then did agamemnon
king of men slai them an ox, a male of five year old, for the most
mighti son of krono. thi thei flai and made readi, and divid it
all, and minc it cunningli, and pierc it through with spit, and
roast it carefulli, and drew all off again. then as soon as thei had
rest from the task and had made readi the meal, thei began the feast,
nor wa their soul aught stint of the equal banquet. and the hero son
of atreu, wide-rule agamemnon, gave to aia slice of the chine's
full length for hi honour. and when thei had put from them the desir
of meat and drink, then first the old man began to weav the web of
counsel, even nestor whose rede [counsel] of old time wa prove most
excel. he made harangu among them and said: "son of atreu and ye
other princ of the achaian, see that mani flow-hair achaian
ar dead, and keen ar hath spilt their duski blood about fair-flow
skamandro, and their soul have gone down to the hous of hade;
therefor it behoveth thee to make the battl of the achaian ceas with
daybreak; and we will assembl to wheel hither the corps with oxen and
mule; so let us burn them; and let us heap on barrow about the pyre,
rear it from the plain for all alik; and thereto build with speed
high tower, a bulwark for our ship and for ourselv. in the midst
thereof let us make gate well compact, that through them mai be a wai
for chariot-drive. and without let us dig a deep foss hard by, to be
about it and to hinder hors and footmen, lest the battl of the lordli
trojan be heavi on us hereaft."

so spake he and all the chief gave assent. but meanwhil there wa in
the high town of ilio an assembl of the trojan, fierc, confus,
besid priam's gate. to them discreet antenor began to make harangu:
"hearken to me, trojan and dardanian and alli, that i mai tell you
that my soul within my breast commandeth me. lo, go to now, let us give
helen of argo and the wealth with her for the son of atreu to take
awai. now fight we in guilt against the oath of faith; therefor is
there no profit for us that i hope to see fulfil, unless we do thu."

so spake he and sate him down; and there stood up among them nobl
alexandro, lord of helen beauti-hair; he made him answer and spake
wing word: "antenor, these word from thee ar no longer to my
pleasur; yet thou hast it in thee to devis other sai more
excel than thi. but if inde thou sayest thi in earnest, then
verili the god themselv have destroi thy wit. but i will speak
forth amid the hors-tame trojan, and declar outright; my wife will
i not give back; but the wealth i brought from argo to our home, all
that i have a mind to give, and add more of mine own substanc."

so spake he and sate him down, and there stood up among them priam of
the seed of dardano, the peer of god in counsel; he made harangu to
them, and said: "hearken to me, trojan and dardanian and alli, that
i mai tell you that my soul within my breast commandeth me. now eat your
supper throughout the citi as of old, and take thought to keep watch,
and be wake everi man. and at dawn let idaio fare to the hollow
ship to tell to atreu' son agamemnon and menelao the sai of
alexandro, for whose sake strife is come about: and likewis to ask
them thi wise word, whether thei ar mind to refrain from noisi war
till we have burn our dead; afterward will we fight again, till
heaven part us and give on or other victori."

so spake he, and thei hearken dilig to him and obei: and at
dawn idaio fare to the hollow ship. he found the danaan in assembl,
the men of ar' compani, besid the stern of agamemnon's ship; and so
the loud-voic herald stood in their midst and said unto them:
"atreid and ye other princ of the achaian, priam and all the nobl
trojan bade me tell you-if perchanc it might find favour and
accept with you-the sai of alexandro, for whose sake strife hath
come about. the wealth that alexandro brought in hi hollow ship to
troi-would he had perish first!-all that he hath a mind to give, and
to add more thereto of hi substanc. but the wed wife of gloriou
menelao he saith he will not give; yet verili the trojan bid him do
it. moreov thei bade me ask thi thing of you; whether ye ar mind
to refrain from noisi war until we have burn our dead; afterward will
we fight again, till heaven part us and give on or other victori."

so said he and thei all kept silenc and were still. but at the last
spake diomed of the loud war-cry in their midst: "let no man now
accept alexandro' substanc, neither helen's self; known is it, even to
him that hath no wit at all, how that the issu of destruct hang
alreadi over the trojan."

so spake he, and all the son of the achaian shout, applaud the
sai of hors-tame diomed. and then lord agamemnon spake to
idaio: "idaio, thyself thou hearest the sai of the achaian, how
thei answer thee; and the like seemeth good to me. but as concern the
dead, i grudg you not to burn them; for dead corps is there no
stint; when thei onc ar dead, of the swift propiti of fire.
and for the oath let zeu be wit, the loud-thunder lord of
hera."

so sai he lift up hi sceptr in the sight of all the god, and
idaio depart back to holi ilio. now trojan and dardanian sate in
assembl, gather all togeth to wait till idaio should come; and he
came and stood in their midst and declar hi messag. then thei made
them readi veri swiftli for either task, some to bring the dead, and
some to seek for wood. and on their part the argiv hast from their
well-deck ship, some to bring the dead and some to seek for wood.

now the sun wa newli beat on the field as he climb heaven from
the deep stream of gentli-flow ocean, when both side met togeth.
then wa it a hard matter to know each man again; but thei wash them
with water clean of clot gore, and with shed of hot tear lift
them upon the wain. but great priam bade them not wail aloud; so in
silenc heap thei the corps on the pyre, stricken at heart; and when
thei had burn them with fire depart to holi ilio. and in like
manner on their side the well-greav achaian heap the corps on the
pyre, stricken at heart, and when thei had burn them with fire
depart to the hollow ship.

and when dai wa not yet, but still twilight of night, then wa the
chosen folk of the achaian gather togeth around the pyre, and made
on barrow about it, rear it from the plain for all alik; and
thereto built thei a wall and lofti tower, a bulwark for their ship
and for themselv. in the midst thereof made thei gate well-compact,
that through them might be a wai for chariot-drive. and without thei
dug a deep foss besid it, broad and great, and plant a palisad
therein.

thu toil the flow-hair achaian: and the god sate by zeu, the
lord of lightn, and marvel at the great work of the mail-clad
achaian. and poseidon shaker of earth spake first to them: "o father
zeu, is there ani man throughout the boundless earth that will ani more
declar to the immort hi mind and counsel? seest thou not how the
flow-hair achaian have now again built them a wall befor their
ship, and drawn a foss around it, but gave not excel hecatomb to
the god? verili the fame thereof shall reach as far as the dawn
spreadeth, and men will forget the wall that i and phoebu apollo built
with travail for the hero laomedon."

and zeu the cloud-gather said to him, sore troubl: "out on it,
far-swai shaker of earth, for thi thing thou sayest. well might some
other god fear thi devic, on that were far feebler than thou in the
might of hi hand: but thine shall be the fame as far as the dawn
spreadeth. go to now, hereaft when the flow-hair achaian be
depart upon their ship to their dear nativ land, then burst thou
thi wall asund and scatter it all into the sea, and cover the great
sea-beach over with sand again, that the great wall of the achaian be
brought to naught."



book viii.

    how zeu bethought him of hi promis to aveng achil'
    wrong on agamemnon; and therefor bade the god refrain from
    war, and gave victori to the trojan.

now dawn the saffron-robe wa spread over all the earth, and zeu
whose joi is in the thunder let call an assembl of the god upon the
topmost peak of mani-ridg olympu, and himself made harangu to them
and all the god gave ear: "hearken to me, all god and all ye
goddess, that i mai tell you what my heart within my breast commandeth
me. on thing let none essai, be it goddess or be it god, to wit, to
thwart my sai; approv ye it all togeth, that with all speed i mai
accomplish these thing. whomsoev i shall perceiv mind to go, apart
from the god, to succour trojan or danaan, chasten in no seemli
wise shall he return to olympu, or i will take and cast him into misti
tartaro, right far awai, where is the deepest gulf beneath the earth;
there ar the gate of iron and threshold of bronz, as far beneath hade
as heaven is high abov the earth: then shall he know how far i am
mightiest of all god. go to now, ye god, make trial that ye all mai
know. fasten ye a rope of gold from heaven, and all ye god lai hold
thereof and all goddess; yet could ye not drag from heaven to earth
zeu, counsellor suprem, not though ye toil sore. but onc i likewis
were mind to draw with all my heart, then should i draw you up with
veri earth and sea withal. thereaft would i bind the rope about a
pinnacl of olympu, and so should all those thing be hung in air. by
so much am i beyond god and beyond men."

so sai he let har to hi chariot hi bronz-shod hors, fleet of
foot, with flow mane of gold; and himself clad him with gold upon
hi flesh, and grasp the whip of gold, well wrought, and mount upon
hi car, and lash the hors to start them; thei noth loth sped on
between earth and starri heaven. so fare he to mani-fountain ida,
mother of wild beast, even unto gargaro, where is hi demesn and
fragrant altar. there did the father of men and god stai hi hors,
and unloos them from the car, and cast thick mist about them; and
himself sate on the mountain-top rejoic in hi glori, to behold the
citi of the trojan and ship of the achaian.

now the flow-hair achaian took meat hastili among the hut and
thereaft arrai themselv. likewis the trojan on their side arm
them throughout the town--a smaller host, yet for all that were thei
eager to fight in battl, of forc need, for their children's sake
and their wive'. and the gate were open wide and the host issu
forth, footmen and horsemen; and mighti din aros.

so when thei were met togeth and come unto on spot, then clash thei
targ and spear and furi of bronz-clad warrior; the boss shield
press each on each, and mighti din aros. then were heard the voic of
groan and the voic of triumph togeth of the slayer and the slain,
and the earth stream with blood.

now while it yet wa morn and the divin dai wax, so long from either
side light the dart amain and the peopl fell. but when the sun
bestrod mid-heaven, then did the father balanc hi golden scale, and
put therein two fate of death that layeth men at their length, on for
hors-tame trojan, on for mail-clad achaian; and he took the
scale-yard by the midst and lift it, and the achaian' dai of destini
sank down. so lai the achaian' fate on the bounteou earth, and the
trojan' fate were lift up toward wide heaven. and the god thunder
aloud from ida, and sent hi blaze flash amid the host of the
achaian; and thei saw and were astonish, and pale fear gat hold upon
all.

then had idomeneu no heart to stand, neither agamemnon, neither stood
the twain aiant, men of ar' compani. onli nestor of gerenia stood
hi ground, he the warden of the achaian; neither he of purpos, but
hi hors wa fordon, which nobl alexandro, beauteou-hair helen's
lord, had smitten with an arrow upon the top of the crest where the
foremost hair of hors grow upon the skull; and there is the most
deadli spot. so the hors leapt up in anguish and the arrow sank into
hi brain, and he brought confus on the steed as he writh upon the
dart. while the old man leapt forth and with hi sword began to hew the
trace, came hector's fleet hors through the tumult, bear a bold
chariot, even hecktor. and now had the old man lost hi life, but
that diomed of the loud war-cry wa swift to mark. terribl shout
he, summon odysseu: "heaven-born son of laert, odysseu of mani
wile, whither fleest thou with thy back turn, like a coward in the
throng? bewar lest as thou fleest on plant a spear between thy
shoulder. nai, stand thy ground, till we thrust back from the old man
hi furiou foe."

so spake he, but much-endur nobl odysseu heard him not, but
hasten by to the hollow ship of the achaian. yet tydeid, though
but on, mingl amid the fighter in the forefront, and took hi stand
befor the steed of the old man, neleu' son, and spake to him wing
word, and said: "old man, of a truth young warrior beset thee hard;
and thy forc is abat, and old ag is sore upon thee, and thy squir
is but a weakl, and thy steed ar slow. come then, mount upon my
car, that thou mayest see of what sort ar the steed of tro, well
skill for follow or flee hither or thither veri fleetli across
the plain, even those that erst i took from aineia inspir of fear.
thine let our squir tend, and these let us guid straight against the
hors-tame trojan, that even hector mai know whether my spear also
rageth in my hand."

so said he, and knightli nestor of gerenia disregard not. then the two
squir tend nestor's hors, even sthenelo the valiant and kindli
eurymedon: and the other twain both mount upon diomed' car. and
nestor took into hi hand the shine rein, and lash the hors; and
soon thei drew nigh hector. then tydeu' son hurl at him as he charg
straight upon them: him miss he, but hi squir that drave hi
chariot, eniopeu, high-heart thebaio' son, even him as he held the
rein, he smote upon the breast besid the nippl. so he fell from out
the car, and hi fleet-foot hors swerv asid; and there hi soul
and spirit were unstrung. then sore grief encompass hector's soul for
sake of hi chariot. yet left he him there ly, though he sorrow
for hi comrad, and drave in quest of a bold chariot; and hi hors
lack not long a master, for anon he found iphito' son, bold
archeptolemo, and him he made mount behind hi fleet hors, and gave
the rein into hi hand.

then had destruct come and deed beyond remedi been wrought, and so
had thei been pen in ilio like lamb, had not the father of god and
men been swift to mark. so he thunder terribl and dart hi white
lightn and hurl it befor diomed' steed to earth; and there
aros a terribl flame of sulphur burn, and the two hors were
affright and cower beneath the car. and the shine rein drop
from nestor's hand, and he wa afraid at heart and spake to diomed:
"come now tydeid, turn back thy whole-hoov hors to flight: seest
thou not that victori from zeu attendeth not on thee? now doth krono'
son vouchsaf glori to thi hector, for the dai; hereaft shall he
grant it us likewis, if he will. a man mai not at all ward off the will
of zeu, not though on be veri valiant; he verili is mightier far."

then diomed of the loud war-cry answer him: "yea verili, old man,
all thi thou sayest is accord unto right. but thi is the sore grief
that entereth my heart and soul: hector some dai shall sai as he maketh
harangu amid the trojan: 'tydeid betook him to the ship in flight
befor my face.' so shall he boast--in that dai let the wide earth yawn
for me."

so spake he and turn the whole-hoov hors to flight, back through
the tumult; and the trojan and hector with wondrou uproar pour upon
them their dolor dart. and over him shout loudli great hector of
the glanc helm: "tydeid, the fleet-hors danaan were wont to
honour thee with the highest place, and meat, and cup brim, but now
will thei disdain thee; thou art after all no better than a woman.
begon, poor puppet; not for my flinch shalt thou climb on our
tower, neither carri our wive awai upon thy ship; er that will i
deal thee thy fate."

so said he, and tydeid wa of divid mind, whether to wheel hi
hors and fight him face to face. thrice doubt he in heart and soul,
and thrice from ida's mountain thunder zeu the lord of counsel, and
gave to the trojan a sign, the turn of the cours of battl. and
hector with loud shout call to the trojan: "trojan and lykian and
dardanian that love close fight, be men, my friend, and bethink you of
impetu valour. i perceiv that of good will kronion vouchsafest me
victori and great glori, and to the danaan destruct. fool, that
devis these wall weak and of none account; thei shall not withhold
our furi, and lightli shall our steed overleap the delv foss. but
when i be onc come amid the hollow ship, then be thought taken of
consum fire, that with fire i mai burn the ship and slai the men."

so spake he and shout to hi steed, and said: "xantho, and thou
podargo, and aithon and goodli lampo, now pai me back your tend,
even the abund that andromach, great-heart eetion's daughter, set
befor you of honei-heart wheat, and mingl wine to drink at the
heart's bid. pursu ye now and hast, that we mai seiz nestor's
shield, the fame whereof now reacheth unto heaven, how that it is of
gold throughout, armrod and all; and mai seiz moreov from
hors-tame diomed' shoulder hi richli dight breastplat that
hephaisto wrought cunningli. could we but take these, then might i hope
thi veri night to make the achaian to embark on their fleet ship."

and now had he burn the trim ship with blaze fire, but that queen
hera put it in agamemnon's heart himself to bestir him and swiftli
arous the achaian. so he went hi wai along the hut and ship of the
achaian, hold a great cloak of purpl in hi stalwart hand, and
stood by odysseu' black ship of mighti burden, that wa in the midst,
so that a voic could be heard to either end. then shout he in a
pierc voic, and call to the danaan aloud: "fie upon you, argiv,
ye sorri thing of shame, so brave in semblanc! whither ar gone our
boast when we said that we were bravest, the boast ye utter
vainglori when in lemno, as ye at your fill of flesh of
tall-horn oxen and drank goblet crown with wine, and said that
everi man should stand in war to face fivescor yea tenscor trojan?
yet now can we not match on, even thi hector that anon will burn our
ship with flame of fire. o father zeu, didst ever thou blind with such
a blind ani mighti king, and rob him of great glori? nai, zeu, thi
hope fulfil thou me; suffer that we ourselv at least flee and escap,
neither suffer that the achaian be thu vanquish of the trojan."

so spake he, and the father had piti on him as he wept, and vouchsaf
him that hi folk should be save and perish not. forthwith sent he an
eagl--surest sign among wing fowl--hold in hi claw a fawn, the
young of a fleet hind; besid the beauti altar of zeu he let fall
the fawn, where the achaian did sacrific unto zeu lord of all
oracl. so when thei saw that the bird wa come from zeu, thei sprang
the more upon the trojan and bethought them of the joi of battl.

now could no man of the danaan, for all thei were veri mani, boast that
he befor tydeu' son had guid hi fleet hors forth, and driven them
across the trench and fought man to man; first by far wa tydeid to
slai a warrior of the trojan in full arrai, even agelao son of
phradmon. now he had turn hi steed to flee; but as he wheel the
other plung the spear into hi back between hi shoulder, and drave
it through hi breast. so fell he from hi chariot, and hi armour
clang upon him.

and after him came atreu' son, even agamemnon and menelao, and after
them the aiant cloth upon with impetu valour, and after them
idomeneu and idomeneu' brother in arm merion, peer of enyalio
slayer of men, and after them eurypylo, euaimon's gloriou son. and
ninth came teukro, stretch hi back-bent bow, and took hi stand
beneath the shield of aia son of telamon. and so aia would stealthili
withdraw the shield, and teukro would spy hi chanc; and when he had
shot and smitten on in the throng, then fell such an on and gave up
the ghost, and teukro would return, and as a child beneath hi mother,
so gat he him to aia; who hid him with the shine shield.

and agamemnon king of men rejoic to behold him make havoc with hi
stalwart bow of the battalion of the trojan, and he came and stood by
hi side and spake to him, sai: "teukro, dear heart, thou son of
telamon, princ of the host, shoot on in thi wise, if perchanc thou
mayest be found the salvat of the danaan and glori of thy father
telamon."

and nobl teukro made answer and said to him: "most nobl son of
atreu, why urgest thou me that myself am eager? verili with such
strength as is in me forbear i not, but ever sinc we drave them toward
ilio i watch with my bow to slai the foemen. eight long-barb arrow
have i now sped, and all ar buri in the flesh of young men swift in
battl; onli thi mad dog can i not smite."

he said, and shot anoth arrow from the string right against hector;
and hi heart wa fain to smite him. yet miss he onc again, for
apollo turn the dart awai; but archeptolemo, hector's bold
chariot, he smote on the breast besid the nippl as he hast into
battl: so he fell from hi car and hi fleet-foot hors swerv
asid; and there hi soul and spirit were unstrung. then sore grief
encompass hector's soul for hi chariot's sake; yet left he him,
though he sorrow for hi comrad, and bade kebrion hi own brother,
be hard by, take the chariot rein; and he heard and disregard not.
and himself he leapt to earth from the resplend car, with a terribl
shout; and in hi hand he caught a stone, and made right at teukro, and
hi heart bade him smite him. now teukro had pluck forth from hi
quiver a keen arrow, and laid it on the string; but even as he drew it
back, hector of the glanc helm smote him with the jag stone, as he
aim eagerli against him, even besid hi shoulder, where the
collar-bone fenceth off neck and breast, and where is the most deadli
spot; and he brake the bowstr, and hi hand from the wrist grew numb,
and he stai fallen upon hi knee, and hi bow drop from hi hand.
but aia disregard not hi brother's fall, but ran and strode across
him and hid him with hi shield. then two trusti comrad bent down to
him, even mekisteu son of echio and goodli alastor, and bare him,
groan sore, to the hollow ship. and onc again the olympian
arous the spirit of the trojan. so thei drove the achaian straight
toward the deep foss, and amid the foremost went hector exult in hi
strength. and even as when a hound behind wild boar or lion, with swift
feet pursu snatcheth at him, at flank or buttock, and watcheth for
him as he wheeleth, so hector press hard on the flow-hair
achaian, slai ever the hindmost, and thei fled on. but when thei
were pass in flight through palisad and foss, and mani were fallen
beneath the trojan' hand, then halt thei and tarri besid the
ship, call on upon anoth, and lift up their hand to all the
god prai each on instantli. but hector wheel round hi
beauteou-mane steed thi wai and that, and hi ey were as the ey
of gorgon or ar bane of mortal.

now at the sight of them the white-arm goddess hera had compass,
and anon spake wing word to athen: "out on it, thou child of
aegi-bear zeu, shall not we twain ani more take thought for the
danaan that perish, if onli for thi last time? now will thei fill up
the measur of evil destini and perish by on man's onslaught; see
that he is furiou now beyond endur, thi hector son of priam, and
verili hath wrought mani a deed of ill."

and the bright-ei goddess athen made answer to her, "yea in good
sooth, mai thi fellow yield up strength and life, and perish at the
argiv' hand in hi nativ land; onli mine own sire is furiou, with
no good intent, headstrong, ever sin, the foiler of my purpos. but
now make thou readi our whole-hoov hors, while i enter into the
palac of aegi-bear zeu and gird me in my armour for battl, that i
mai see if priam's son, hector of the glanc helm, shall be glad at
the appear of us twain amid the highwai of the battl. sure shall
mani a trojan likewis glut dog and bird with fat and flesh, fallen
dead at the ship of the achaian."

so said she, and the white-arm goddess hera disregard not. but when
father zeu beheld from ida, he wa sore wroth, and sped iri
golden-wing to bear a messag: "go thy wai, fleet iri, turn them
back, neither suffer them to face me; for in no happi wise shall we join
in combat. for thu will i declar, and even so shall the fulfil be;
i will maim their fleet hors in the chariot, and them will i hurl out
from the car, and will break in piec the chariot; neither within the
cours of ten year shall thei heal them of the wound the thunderbolt
shall tear; that the bright-ei on mai know the end when she striveth
against her father. but with hera have i not so great indign nor
wrath: see it ever is her wont to thwart me, whate'er i have
decre."

so said he, and whirlwind-foot iri aros to bear the messag, and
depart from the mountain of ida unto high olympu. and even at the
entranc of the gate of olympu mani-fold she met them and stai
them, and told them the sai of zeu.

and father zeu drave from ida hi fair-wheel chariot and hors unto
olympu, and came unto the session of the god. for him also the nobl
shaker of earth unyok the steed, and set the car upon the stand, and
spread a cloth thereov; and far-see zeu himself sate upon hi
golden throne, and beneath hi feet great olympu quak. onli athen
and hera sate apart from zeu, and spake no word to him neither
question him. but he wa ware thereof in hi heart, and said, "why ar
ye thu vex, athen and hera? sure ye ar not weari of make
havoc in gloriou battl of the trojan, for whom ye cherish bitter
hate! howsoev, see that my might is so great and my hand
invinc, all the god that ar in olympu could not turn me: and for
you twain, trembl erst gat hold upon your bright limb er that ye
beheld war and war's fell deed. for thu will i declar, and even so
had the fulfil been--never had ye, onc smitten with the
thunderbolt, fare on your chariot back unto olympu where is the
habit of the immort."

so spake he, and athen and hera murmur, that were sit by him and
devis ill for the trojan. now athen held her peac, and said not
anyth, for wrath at father zeu, and fierc anger gat hold upon her;
but hera's heart contain not her anger, and she spake: "most dread son
of krono, what word is thi thou hast said? well know we, even we, that
thy might is no wise puni; yet still have we piti for the danaan
spearmen, that now shall perish and fill up the measur of grievou
fate."

and zeu the cloud-gather answer and said: "at morn shalt thou
behold most mighti kronion, if thou wilt have it so, o hera, ox-ei
queen, make yet more havoc of the vast armi of argiv spearmen; for
headlong hector shall not refrain from battl till that peleu' son
fleet of foot have arisen besid the ship, that dai when these shall
fight amid the stern in most grievou stress, around patroklo fallen.
such is the doom of heaven. and for thine anger reck i not, not even
though thou go to the nethermost bound of earth and sea, where sit
iapeto and krono and have no joi in the beam of hyperion the sun-god,
neither in ani breez, but deep tartaro is round about them. though
thou shouldest wander till thou come even thither, yet reck i not of thy
vexat, see there is no thing more unabash than thou."

so said he, but white-arm hera spake him no word. and the sun's bright
light drop into ocean, draw black night across earth the
grain-giver. against the trojan' will daylight depart, but welcom,
thrice prai for, to the achaian came down the murki night.

now gloriou hector made an assembl of the trojan, take them apart
from the ship, besid the eddi river, in an open space where wa
found a spot clear of dead. and thei came down from their chariot to
the ground to hear the word that hector, dear unto zeu, proclaim. he
in hi hand held hi spear eleven cubit long; befor hi face gleam
the spearhead of bronz, and a ring of gold ran round about it. thereon
he lean and spake to the trojan, sai: "hearken to me, trojan and
dardanian and alli. i thought but now to make havoc of the ship and
all the achaian and depart back again to windi ilio; but dusk came too
soon, and that in chief hath now save the argiv and the ship besid
the beach of the sea. so let us now yield to black night, and make our
supper readi; unyok ye from the chariot your fair-mane hors, and
set fodder besid them. and from the citi bring kine and goodli sheep
with speed; and provid you with honei-heart wine, and corn from your
hous, and gather much wood withal, that all night long until
earli-spring dawn we mai burn mani fire, and the gleam mai reach to
heaven; lest perchanc even by night the flow-hair achaian strive
to take flight over the broad back of the sea. verili must thei not
embark upon their ship unvex, at eas: but see ye that mani a on of
them have a wound to nurs even at home, be stricken with arrow or
keen-point spear as he leapeth upon hi ship; that so mani anoth man
mai dread to wage dolor war on the hors-tame men of troi. and let
the herald dear to zeu proclaim throughout the citi that young maiden
and old men of hoari head camp round the citi on the battlement
build of the god; and let the women folk burn a great fire each in
her hall; and let there be a sure watch set, lest an ambush enter the
citi when the host is absent. howbeit for the night will we guard our
own selv, and at morn by daybreak, arrai in our armour, let us awak
keen battl at the hollow ship. i will know whether tydeu' son
stalwart diomed shall thrust me from the ship back to the wall, or i
shall lai him low with my spear and bear awai hi gori spoil. to-morrow
shall he prove hi valour, whether he can abid the onslaught of my
spear. would that i were immort and ageless all my dai and honour
like as athen is honour and apollo, so sure as thi dai bringeth
the argiv ill."

so hector made harangu, and the trojan clamour applaus. and thei
loos their sweat steed from the yoke, and tether them with
thong, each man besid hi chariot; and from the citi thei brought kine
and goodli sheep with speed, and provid them with honei-heart wine
and corn from their hous, and gather much wood withal. and from the
plain the wind bare into heaven the sweet savour. but these with high
hope sate them all night along the highwai of the battl, and their
watchfir burn in multitud. even as when in heaven the star about
the bright moon shine clear to see, when the air is windless, and all
the peak appear and the tall headland and glade, and from heaven
breaketh open the infinit air, and all star ar seen, and the
shepherd's heart is glad; even in like multitud between the ship and
the stream of xantho appear the watchfir that the trojan kindl
in front of ilio. a thousand fire burn in the plain and by the side
of each sate fifti in the gleam of blaze fire. and the hors champ
white barlei and spelt, and stand by their chariot wait for the
throne dawn.



book ix.

    how agamemnon sent an embassag to achil, beseech him
    to be appeas; and how achil deni him.

thu kept the trojan watch; but the achaian were holden of heaven-sent
panic, handmaid of palsi fear, and all their best were stricken to
the heart with grief intoler. like as two wind stir up the main,
the home of fish, even the north wind and the west wind that blow from
thrace, come suddenli; and the dark billow straightwai lifteth up it
crest and casteth much tangl out along the sea; even so wa the
achaian' spirit troubl in their breast.

but atreid wa stricken to the heart with sore grief, and went about
bid the clear-voic herald summon everi man by name to the
assembl, but not to shout aloud; and himself he toil amid the
foremost. so thei sat sorrow in assembl, and agamemnon stood up
weep like unto a fountain of dark water that from a beetl cliff
poureth down it black stream; even so with deep groan he spake amid
the argiv and said: "my friend, leader and captain of the argiv,
zeu son of krono hath bound me with might in grievou blind of
soul; hard of heart is he, for that erewhil he promis and gave hi
pledg that not till i had laid wast well-wall ilio should i depart,
but now hath plan a cruel wile, and biddeth me return in dishonour to
argo with the loss of mani of my folk. such meseemeth is the good
pleasur of most mighti zeu, that hath laid low the head of mani
citi, yea and shall lai low; for hi is highest power. so come, even
as i shall bid let us all obei; let us flee with our ship to our dear
nativ land, for now shall we never take wide-wai troi."

so said he, and thei all held their peac and kept silenc. long time
were the son of the achaian voiceless for grief, but at the last
diomed of the loud war-cry spake amid them and said: "atreid: with
thee first in thy folli will i contend, where it is just, o king, even
in the assembl; be not thou wroth therefor. my valour didst thou blame
in chief amid the danaan, and saidst that i wa no man of war but a
coward; and all thi know the argiv both young and old. but the son of
crook-counsel krono hath endow thee but by halv; he grant
thee to have the honour of the sceptr abov all men, but valour he gave
thee not, wherein is highest power. sir, deemest thou that the son of
the achaian ar thu inde coward and weakl as thou sayest? if
thine own heart be set on depart, go thy wai; the wai is befor thee,
and thy ship stand besid the sea, even the great multitud that
follow thee from myken. but all the other flow-hair achaian
will tarri here until we lai wast troi. nai, let them too flee on their
ship to their dear nativ land; yet will we twain, even i and
sthenelo, fight till we attain the goal of ilio; for in god's name ar
we come."

so said he, and all the son of the achaian shout aloud, applaud
the sai of hors-tame diomed. then knightli nestor aros and said
amid them: "tydeid, in battl art thou pass mighti, and in council
art thou best among thine equal in year; none of all the achaian will
make light of thy word nor gainsai it. now let us yield to black night
and make readi our meal; and let the sentinel bestow them sever
along the deep-delv foss without the wall. thi charg give i to the
young men; and thou, atreid, lead then the wai, for thou art the most
royal. spread thou a feast for the councillor; that is thy place and
seemli for thee. thy hut ar full of wine that the ship of the
achaian bring thee by dai from thrace across the wide sea; all
entertain is for thee, be king over mani. in the gather of
mani shalt thou listen to him that deviseth the most excel counsel;
sore need have all the achaian of such as is good and prudent, becaus
hard by the ship our foemen ar burn their watch-fire in multitud;
what man can rejoic thereat? thi night shall either destroi or save
the host."

so said he, and thei gladli hearken to him and obei. forth salli
the sentinel in their har. seven were the captain of the
sentinel, and with each went fivescor young men bear their long
spear in their hand; and thei took post midwai betwixt foss and wall,
and kindl a fire and made readi each man hi meal.

then atreid gather the councillor of the achaian, and led them to
hi hut, and spread befor them an abund feast. so thei put forth
their hand to the good cheer that lai befor them. and when thei had
put awai from them the desir of meat and drink, then the old man first
began to weav hi counsel, even nestor, whose rede of old time wa
approv the best. he spake to them and said: "most nobl son of atreu,
agamemnon king of men, in thy name will i end and with thy name begin,
becaus thou art king over mani host, and to thy hand zeu hath
entrust sceptr and law, that thou mayest take counsel for thy folk.
thee therefor more than ani it behoveth both to speak and hearken, and
to accomplish what anoth than thou mai sai. no other man shall have a
more excel thought than thi that i bear in mind from old time even
until now, sinc the dai when thou, o heaven-sprung king, didst go and
take the damsel brisei from angri achil' hut by no consent of our.
nai, i right heartili dissuad thee; but thou yieldedst to thy proud
spirit, and dishonouredst a man of valour whom even the immort
honour; for thou didst take and keepest from him hi meed of valour.
still let us even now take thought how we mai appeas him and persuad
him with gift of friendship and kindli word."

and agamemnon king of men answer and said to him: "old sir, in no
fals wise hast thou accus my folli. fool wa i, i myself deni it not.
worth mani host is he whom zeu loveth in hi heart, even as now he
honoureth thi man and destroyeth the host of the achaian. but see i
wa a fool in that i yield to my sorri passion, i will make amend and
give a recompens beyond tell. in the midst of you all i will name
the excel gift; seven tripod untouch of fire, and ten talent of
gold and twenti gleam caldron, and twelv stalwart hors, winner
in the race, that have taken prize by their speed. no lackwealth were
that man whose substanc were as great as the prize my whole-hoov
steed have born me off. and seven women will i give, skill in
excel handiwork, lesbian whom i chose me from the spoil the dai
that he himself took stablish lesbo, surpass womankind in beauti.
these will i give him, and with them shall be she whom erst i took from
him, even the daughter of briseu. all these thing shall be set
straightwai befor him; and if hereaft the god grant us to lai wast
the great citi of priam, then let him enter in when we achaian be
divid the spoil, and lade hi ship full of gold and bronz, and
himself choos twenti trojan women, the fairest that there be after
helen of argo. and if we win to the richest of land, even achaian
argo, he shall be my son and i will hold him in like honour with
orest, my stripl boi that is nurtur in all abund. three
daughter ar mine in my well-build hall, chrysothemi and laodik and
iphianassa; let him take of them which he will, without gift of woo,
to peleu' hous; and i will add a great dower such as no man ever yet
gave with hi daughter. and seven well-peopl citi will i give him,
kardamyl and enop and grassi hire and holi pherai and antheia deep in
mead, and fair aipeia and pedaso land of vine. and all ar nigh to
the salt sea, on the uttermost border of sandi pylo; therein dwell men
abound in flock and kine, men that shall worship him like a god with
gift, and beneath hi swai fulfil hi prosper ordin. all thi
will i accomplish so he but ceas from wrath. let him yield; hade i
ween is not to be soften neither overcom, and therefor is he
hatefullest of all god to mortal. yea, let him be rule by me,
inasmuch as i am more royal and avow me to be the elder in year."

then knightli nestor of gerenia answer and said: "most nobl son of
atreu, agamemnon king of men, now ar these gift not lightli to be
esteem that thou offerest king achil. come therefor, let us speed
forth pick men to go with all hast to the hut of peleu' son
achil. lo now, whomsoev i appoint let them consent. first let
phoinix dear to zeu lead the wai, and after him great aia and nobl
odysseu; and for herald let odio and euryb be their companion.
and now bring water for our hand, and bid keep holi silenc, that we
mai prai unto zeu the son of krono, if perchanc he will have merci
upon us."

so said he, and spake word that were well-pleas unto all. forthwith
the herald pour water on their hand, and the young men crown the
bowl with drink and gave each man hi portion after thei had pour the
libat in the cup. and when thei had made libat and drunk as their
heart desir, thei issu forth from the hut of agamemnon son of
atreu. and knightli nestor of gerenia gave them full charg, with mani
a glanc to each, and chiefest to odysseu, how thei should essai to
prevail on peleu' nobl son.

so the twain went along the shore of the loud-sound sea, make
instant prayer to the earth-embrac, the shaker of the earth, that thei
might with eas prevail on aiakid' great heart. so thei came to the
hut and ship of the myrmidon, and found their king take hi
pleasur of a loud lyre, fair, of curiou work, with a silver cross-bar
upon it. therein he wa delight hi soul, and sing the glori of
hero. and over against him sate patroklo alon in silenc, watch
till aiakid should ceas from sing. so the twain came forward, and
nobl odysseu led the wai, and thei stood befor hi face; and achil
sprang up amaz with the lyre in hi hand, and left the seat where he
wa sit, and in like manner patroklo when he beheld the men aros.
then achil fleet of foot greet them and said: "welcom; verili ye
ar friend that ar come--sore inde is the need--even ye that ar
dearest of the achaian to me even in my wrath."

so spake nobl achil and led them forward, and made them sit on
settl and carpet of purpl; and anon he spake to patroklo be
near: "bring forth a greater bowl, thou son of menoitio; mingl
stronger drink, and prepar each man a cup, for dearest of men ar these
that ar under my roof."

then put thei forth their hand to the good cheer ly befor them. and
when thei had put from them the desir of meat and drink, aia nod to
phoinix. but nobl odysseu mark it, and fill a cup with wine and
pledg achil: "hail, o achil! the fair feast lack we not either
in the hut of agamemnon son of atreu neither now in thine; for feast
is there abund to our heart's desir, but our thought is not for
matter of the delici feast; nai, we behold veri sore destruct,
thou fosterl of zeu, and ar afraid. now is it in doubt whether we
save the bench ship or behold them perish, if thou put not on thy
might. nigh unto ship and wall have the high-heart trojan and fame
alli pitch their camp, and kindl mani fire throughout their host,
and ween that thei shall no more be withheld but will fall on our black
ship. and zeu son of krono sheweth them sign upon the right by
lightn, and hector greatli exulteth in hi might and rageth
furious, trust in zeu, and recketh not of god nor man, for mighti
mad hath possess him. he prayeth bright dawn to shine forth with
all speed, for he bath pass hi word to smite off from the ship the
ensign' top, and to fire the hull with devour flame, and hard
therebi to make havoc of the achaian confound by the smoke. therefor
am i sore afraid in my heart lest the god fulfil hi boast, and it
be fate for us to perish here in troi-land, far from argo pastur-land
of hors. up then! if thou art mind even at the last to save the
fail son of the achaian from the war-din of the trojan. eschew thy
grievou wrath; agamemnon offereth thee worthi gift, so thou wilt ceas
from anger. lo now, hearken thou to me, and i will tell thee all the
gift that in hi hut agamemnon promis thee. but if agamemnon be too
hate to thy heart, both he and hi gift, yet have thou piti on all
the achaian that faint throughout the host; these shall honour thee as
a god, for verili thou wilt earn exceed great glori at their hand.
yea now mightest thou slai hector, for he would come veri near thee in
hi deadli mad, becaus he deemeth that there is no man like unto
him among the danaan that the ship brought hither."

and achil fleet of foot answer and said unto him: "heaven-sprung
son of laert, odysseu of mani wile, in open must i now declar
unto you my sai, even as i am mind and as the fulfil thereof
shall be, that ye mai not sit befor me and coax thi wai and that. for
hate to me even as the gate of hell is he that hideth on thing in
hi heart and uttereth anoth: but i will speak what meseemeth best.
not me, i ween, shall agamemnon son of atreu persuad, nor the other
danaan, see we were to have no thank for battl with the foemen
ever without respit. he that abideth at home hath equal share with him
that fighteth hi best, and in like honour ar held both the coward and
the brave; death cometh alik to the untoil and to him that hath
toil long. neither have i ani profit for that i endur tribul of
soul, ever stake my life in fight. even as a hen bringeth her
unfledg chicken each morsel as she winneth it, and with herself it
goeth hard, even so i wa wont to watch out mani a sleepless night and
pass through mani bloodi dai of battl, war with folk for their
women's sake. twelv citi of men have i laid wast from ship-board,
and from land eleven, throughout deep-soil troi-land; out of all these
took i mani goodli treasur and would bring and give them all to
agamemnon son of atreu, and he stai behind amid the fleet ship
would take them and portion out some few but keep the most. now some he
gave to be meed of honour to the princ and the king, and their ar
left untouch; onli from me of all the achaian took he my darl ladi
and keepeth her. but why must the argiv make war on the trojan? why
hath atreid gather hi host and led them hither? is it not for
love-hair helen's sake? do then the son of atreu alon of mortal
men love their wive? sure whatsoev man is good and sound of mind
loveth hi own and cherisheth her, even as i too love mine with all my
heart, though but the captiv of my spear. but now that he hath taken my
meed of honour from mine arm and hath deceiv me, let him not tempt me
that know him full well; he shall not prevail. nai, odysseu, let him
take counsel with thee and all the princ to ward from the ship the
consum fire. verili without mine aid he hath wrought mani thing, and
built a wall and dug a foss about it wide and deep, and set a palisad
therein; yet even so can he not stai murder hector's might. but so
long as i wa fight amid the achaian, hector had no mind to arrai
hi battl far from the wall, but scarc came unto the skaian gate and
to the oak-tree; there onc he await me alon and scarc escap my
onset. but now, see i have no mind to fight with nobl hector, i will
to-morrow do sacrific to zeu and all the god, and store well my ship
when i have launch them on the salt sea--then shalt thou see, if thou
wilt and hast ani care therefor, my ship sail at break of dai over
hellespont, the fish' home, and my men right eager at the oar; and if
the great shaker of the earth grant me good journei, on the third dai
should i reach deep-soil phthia. there ar my great possess that i
left when i came hither to my hurt; and yet more gold and ruddi bronz
shall i bring from henc, and fair-girdl women and grei iron, all at
least that were mine by lot; onli my meed of honour hath he that gave it
me taken back in hi despit, even lord agamemnon son of atreu.
to him declar ye everyth even as i charg you, openli, that all the
achaian likewis mai have indign, if hapli he hopeth to beguil
yet some other danaan, for that he is ever cloth in shameless.
verili not in my face would he dare to look, though he have the front of
a dog. neither will i devis counsel with him nor ani enterpris, for
utterli he hath deceiv me and done wickedli; but never again shall he
beguil me with fair speech--let thi suffic him. let him begon in
peac; zeu the lord of counsel hath taken awai hi wit. hate to me
ar hi gift, and i hold him at a straw's worth. not even if he gave me
ten time, yea twenti, all that now is hi, and all that mai come to him
otherwh, even all the revenu of orchomeno or egyptian thebe where
the treasur-hous ar store fullest--thebe of the hundr gate,
whenc salli forth two hundr warrior through each with hors and
chariot--nai, nor gift in number as sand or dust; not even so shall
agamemnon persuad my soul till he have paid me back all the bitter
despit. and the daughter of agamemnon son of atreu will i not wed, not
were she rival of golden aphrodit for fair and for handiwork
match bright-ei athen--not even then will i wed her; let him choos
him of the achaian anoth that is hi peer and is more royal than i.
for if the god inde preserv me and i come unto my home, then will
peleu himself seek me a wife. mani achaian maiden ar there throughout
hella and phthia, daughter of princ that ward their citi;
whomsoev of these i wish will i make my dear ladi. veri often wa my
high soul move to take me there a wed wife, a help meet for me, and
have joi of the possess that the old man peleu possesseth. for not
of like worth with life hold i even all the wealth that men sai wa
possess of the well-peopl citi of ilio in dai of peac gone by,
befor the son of the achaian came; neither all the treasur that the
stone threshold of the archer phoebu apollo encompasseth in rocki
pytho. for kine and goodli flock ar to be had for the harri, and
tripod and chestnut hors for the purchas; but to bring back man's
life neither harri nor earn availeth when onc it hath pass the
barrier of hi lip. for thu my goddess mother telleth me, theti the
silver-foot, that twain fate ar bear me to the issu of death. if
i abid here and besieg the trojan' citi, then my return home is
taken from me, but my fame shall be imperish; but if i go home to my
dear nativ land, my high fame is taken from me, but my life shall
endur long while, neither shall the issu of death soon reach me.
moreov i would counsel you all to set sail homeward, see ye shall
never reach your goal of steep ilio; of a sureti far-see zeu
holdeth hi hand over her and her folk ar of good courag. so go your
wai and tell my answer to the princ of the achaian, even as is the
offic of elder, that thei mai devis in their heart some other better
counsel, such as shall save them their ship and the host of the
achaian amid the hollow ship: sinc thi counsel availeth them naught
that thei have now devis, by reason of my fierc wrath. but let
phoinix now abid with us and lai him to rest, that he mai follow with
me on my ship to our dear nativ land to-morrow, if he will; for i will
not take him perforc."

so spake he, and thei all held their peac and were still, and marvel
at hi sai; for he deni them veri vehement. but at the last spake
to them the old knight phoinix, burst into tear, becaus he wa sore
afraid for the ship of the achaian: "if inde thou ponderest
departur in thy heart, gloriou achil, and hast no mind at all to
save the fleet ship from consum fire, becaus that wrath bath
enter into thy heart; how can i be left of thee, dear son, alon
thereaft? to thee did the old knight peleu send me the dai he sent
thee to agamemnon forth from phthia, a stripl yet unskil in equal
war and in debat wherein men wax pre-emin. therefor sent he me to
teach thee all these thing, to be both a speaker of word and a doer of
deed. yea, i rear thee to thi great, thou godlik achil, with
my heart's love; for with none other wouldest thou go unto the feast,
neither take meat in the hall, till that i had set thee upon my knee
and stai thee with the savouri morsel cut first for thee, and put the
wine-cup to thy lip. oft hast thou stain the doublet on my breast
with sputter of wine in thy sorri helpless. thu i suffer much
with thee, and much i toil, be mind that the god in nowis
creat ani issu of my bodi; but i made thee my son, thou godlik
achil, that thou mayest yet save me from grievou destruct.
therefor, achil, rule thy high spirit; neither beseemeth it thee to
have a ruthless heart. nai, even the veri god can bend, and their
withal is loftier majesti and honour and might. nai, come for the gift;
the achaian shall honour thee even as a god. but if without gift thou
enter into battl the bane of men, thou wilt not be held in like honour,
even though thou avert the frai."

and achil fleet of foot made answer and said to him: "phoinix my
father, thou old man fosterl of zeu, such honour need i in no wise;
for i deem that i have been honour by the judgment of zeu, which
shall abid upon me amid my beak ship as long as breath tarrieth in
my bodi and my limb ar strong. moreov i will sai thi thing to thee
and lai thou it to thine heart; troubl not my soul by weep and
lament, to do the pleasur of warrior atreid; neither beseemeth
it thee to cherish him, lest thou be hate of me that cherish thee. it
were good that thou with me shouldest vex him that vexeth me. be thou
king even as i, and share my swai by halv, but these shall bear my
messag. so tarri thou here and lai thee to rest in a soft bed, and with
break of dai will we consid whether to depart unto our own, or to
abid."

he spake, and nod hi brow in silenc unto patroklo to spread for
phoinix a thick couch, that the other might bethink them to depart from
the hut with speed. then spake to them aia, telamon's godlik son, and
said: "heaven-sprung son of laert, odysseu of mani wile, let us go
henc; for methink the purpos of our charg will not by thi journei
be accomplish; and we must tell the new, though it be no wise good,
with all speed unto the danaan, that now sit await. but achil
hath wrought hi proud soul to furi within him--stubborn man, that
recketh naught of hi comrad' love, wherein we worship him beyond
all men amid the ship--unmerci! yet doth a man accept recompens of
hi brother's murder or for hi dead son; and so the man-slayer for a
great price abideth in hi own land, and the kinsman's heart is
appeas, and hi proud soul, when he hath taken the recompens. but for
thee, the god have put within thy breast a spirit implac and evil,
by reason of on singl damsel. and now we offer thee seven damsel, far
best of all, and mani other gift besid; entertain thou then a kindli
spirit, and have respect unto thine home; becaus we ar guest of thy
roof, sent of the multitud of danaan, and we would fain be nearest to
thee and dearest beyond all other achaian, as mani as there be."

and achil fleet of foot made answer and said to him: "aia sprung of
zeu, thou son of telamon, princ of the folk, thou seemest to speak all
thi almost after mine own mind; but my heart swelleth with wrath as oft
as i bethink me of those thing, how atreid entreat me arrogantli
among the argiv, as though i were some worthless sojourn. but go ye
and declar my messag; i will not take thought of bloodi war until that
wise priam's son, nobl hector, come to the myrmidon' hut and ship,
slai the argiv, and smirch the ship with fire. but about mine hut
and black ship i ween that hector, though he be veri eager for battl,
shall be refrain."

so said he, and thei took each man a two-handl cup, and made libat
and went back along the line of ship; and odysseu led the wai. and
patroklo bade hi fellow and handmaiden spread with all speed a thick
couch for phoinix; and thei obei and spread a couch as he ordain,
fleec and rug and fine flock of linen. then the old man laid him down
and tarri for bright dawn.

now when those were come unto atreid' hut, the son of the achaian
stood up on thi side and on that, and pledg them in cup of gold, and
question them; and agamemnon king of men ask them first: "come now,
tell me, odysseu full of prais, thou great glori of the achaian; will
he save the ship from consum fire, or said he nai, and hath wrath
yet hold of hi proud spirit?"

and steadfast goodli odysseu answer him: "most nobl son of atreu,
agamemnon king of men, he yonder hath no mind to quench hi wrath, but
is yet more fill of furi, and spurneth thee and thy gift. he biddeth
thee take counsel for thyself amid the argiv, how to save the ship
and folk of the achaian. and for himself he threateneth that at break
of dai he will launch upon the sea hi trim well-bench ship. moreov
he said that he would counsel all to sail for home, becaus ye now shall
never reach your goal of steep ilio; sure far-see zeu holdeth hi
hand over her and her folk ar of good courag. even so said he, and
here ar also these to tell the tale that were my companion, aia and
the two herald, both men discreet. but the old man phoinix laid him
there to rest, even as achil bade him, that he mai follow with him on
hi ship to hi dear nativ land to-morrow, if he will; for he will not
take him perforc."

so said he, and thei all held their peac and were still, marvel at
hi sai, for he harangu veri vehement. long were the son of the
achaian voiceless for grief, but at the last diomed of the loud
war-cry spake amid them: "most nobl son of atreu, agamemnon king of
men, would thou hadst never besought peleu' gloriou son with offer of
gift innumer; proud is he at ani time, but now hast thou yet far
more encourag him in hi haughti. howbeit we will let him bide,
whether he go or tarri; hereaft he shall fight, whenev hi heart
within him biddeth and god arouseth him. come now, even as i shall sai
let us all obei. go ye now to rest, full to your heart' desir of meat
and wine, wherein courag is and strength; but when fair rosi-finger
dawn appeareth, arrai thou with all speed befor the ship thy folk and
horsemen, and urg them on; and fight thyself amid the foremost."

so said he, and all the princ gave assent, applaud the sai of
diomed tamer of hors. and then thei made libat and went everi man
to hi hut, and there laid them to rest and took the boon of sleep.



book x.

    how diomed and odysseu slew dolon, a spy of the trojan,
    and themselv spi on the trojan camp, and took the hors
    of rheso, the thracian king.

now besid the ship the other leader of the whole achaian host were
sleep all night long, by soft sleep overcom, but agamemnon son of
atreu, shepherd of the host, sweet sleep held not, so mani thing he
debat in hi mind. and even as when the lord of fair-tress hera
lighteneth, fashion either a mighti rain unspeak, or hail, or
snow, when the flake sprinkl all the plough land, or fashion
perchanc the wide mouth of bitter war, even so oft in hi breast
groan agamemnon, from the veri deep of hi heart, and hi spirit
trembl within him. and whensoev he look toward that trojan plain,
he marvel at the mani fire that blaze in front of ilio, and at the
sound of flute and pipe, and the nois of men; but whensoev to the
ship he glanc and the host of the achaian, then rent he mani a lock
clean forth from hi head, to zeu that is abov, and greatli groan
hi nobl heart.

and thi in hi soul seem to him the best counsel, to go first of all
to nestor son of neleu, if perchanc he might contriv with him some
right devic that should be for the ward off of evil from all the
danaan.

then he rose, and did on hi doublet about hi breast, and beneath hi
shine feet he bound on fair sandal, and thereaft clad him in the
tawni skin of a lion fieri and great, a skin that reach to the feet,
and he grasp hi spear.

and even in like wise did trembl fear take hold on menelao, (for
neither on hi eyelid did sleep settl down,) lest somewhat should
befal the argiv, who verili for hi sake over wide water were come
to troi-land, with fierc war in their thought.

with a dappl pard's akin first he cover hi broad shoulder, and he
rais and set on hi head a casqu of bronz, and took a spear in hi
strong hand. then went he on hi wai to rous hi brother, that mightili
rule over all the argiv, and as a god wa honour by the peopl. him
found he har hi goodli gear about hi shoulder, by the stern of
the ship, and glad to hi brother wa hi come. then menelao of the
loud war-cry first accost him: "wherefor thu, dear brother, art thou
arm? wilt thou speed forth ani of thy comrad to spy on the trojan?
nai, terribl i fear lest none should undertak for thee thi deed, even
to go and spy out the foeman alon through the ambrosi night; need
must he be a man right hardi of heart."

then the lord agamemnon answer him and spake: "need of good counsel
have i and thou, menelao fosterl of zeu, of counsel that will help
and save the argiv and the ship, sinc the heart of zeu hath turn
again. sure on the sacrific of hector hath he set hi heart rather
than on our. for never did i see, nor heard ani tell, that on man
devis so mani terribl deed in on dai, as hector, dear to zeu, hath
wrought on the son of the achaian, unaid; though no dear son of a
goddess is he, nor of a god. he hath done deed that methink will be a
sorrow to the argiv, last and long, such evil hath he devis
against the achaian. but go now, run swiftli by the ship, and summon
aia and idomeneu, but i will betak me to nobl nestor, and bid him
aris, if perchanc he will be fain to go to the sacr compani of the
sentinel and lai on them hi command. for to him abov other would
thei listen, for hi own son is chief among the sentinel, he and the
brother in arm of idomeneu, even merion, for to them abov all we
entrust thi charg."

then menelao of the loud war-cry answer him: "how meanest thou thi
word wherewith thou dost command and exhort me? am i to abid there with
them, wait till thou comest, or run back again to thee when i have
well deliv to them thy command?"

then the king of men, agamemnon, answer him again: "there do thou
abid lest we miss each other as we go, for mani ar the path through
the camp. but call aloud, wheresoev thou goest, and bid men awak,
name each man by hi lineag, and hi father's name, and give all
their due of honour, nor be thou proud of heart. nai rather let us
ourselv be labour, for even thu did zeu from our veri birth
dispens to us the heavi of toil."

so he spake, and sent hi brother awai, have clearli laid on him hi
command. then went he himself after nestor, the shepherd of the
host, whom he found by hi hut and black ship, in hi soft bed: besid
him lai hi arm, a shield, and two spear, and a shine helmet. besid
him lai hi glitter girdl wherewith the old man wa wont to gird
himself when he har him for war, the bane of men, and led on the
host, for he yield not to grievou old ag. then he rais him on hi
elbow, lift hi head, and spake to the son of atreu, inquir of
him with thi word: "who art thou that farest alon by the ship,
through the camp in the dark night, when other mortal ar sleep?
seekest thou on of thy mule, or of thy comrad? speak, and come not
silent upon me. what need hast thou?"

then the king of men, agamemnon, answer him: "o nestor, son of neleu,
great glori of the achaian, thou shalt know agamemnon, son of atreu,
whom abov all men zeu hath plant for ever among labour, while my
breath abid within my breast, and my knee move. i wander thu, for
that sweet sleep rest not on mine ey, but war is my care, and the
troubl of the achaian. yea, greatli i fear for the sake of the
danaan, nor is my heart firm, but i am toss to and fro, and my heart
is leap from my breast, and my good knee trembl beneath me. but if
thou wilt do aught, sinc neither on thee cometh sleep, let us go
thither to the sentinel, that we mai see them, lest thei be fordon
with toil, and so ar slumber, and have quit forgotten to keep
watch. and hostil men camp hard by, nor know we at all but that thei
ar keen to do battl in the night."

then knightli nestor of gerenia answer him: "verili will i follow
after thee, but let us also rous other again, both the son of tydeu,
spearman renown, and odysseu, and swift aia, and the strong son of
phyleu. but well it would be if on were to go and call those also, the
godlik aia, and idomeneu the princ; for their ship ar furthest of
all, and nowis close at hand. but menelao will i blame, dear as he is
and worship, yea, even if thou be angri with me, nor will i hide my
thought, for that he slumbereth, and to thee alon hath left the toil;
now should he be toil among all the chief and beseech them, for
need no longer toler is come upon us."

and the king of men, agamemnon, answer him again: "old man, anoth
dai i even bid thee blame him, for often is he slack, and willeth not
to labour, yield neither to unreadi nor heedless of heart,
but look toward me, and expect mine instanc. but now he awok
far befor me, and came to me, and him i sent forward to call those
concern whom thou inquirest. but let us be gone, and them shall
we find befor the gate, among the sentinel, for there i bade them
gather."

then knightli nestor of gerenia answer him: "so will none of the
argiv be wroth with him or disobei him, when soever he doth urg ani
on, and give him hi command."

so spake he, and did on hi doublet about hi breast, and beneath hi
bright feet he bound goodli shoon, and all around him buckl a purpl
cloak, with doubl fold and wide, and thick down all over it.

and he took a strong spear, point with sharp bronz, and he went among
the ship of the mail-clad achaian. then odysseu first, the peer of
zeu in counsel, did knightli gerenian nestor arous out of sleep, with
hi voic, and quickli the cry came all about hi heart, and he came
forth from the hut and spake to them sai: "wherefor thu among the
ship and through the camp do ye wander alon, in the ambrosi night;
what so great need cometh upon you?"

then knightli nestor of gerenia answer him: "laert' son, be not
wroth, for great troubl besetteth the achaian. nai follow, that we mai
arous other too, even all that it behoveth to take counsel, whether we
should fly, or fight."

so spake he, and odysseu of the mani counsel came to the hut, and cast
a shield about hi shoulder, and went after them.

and thei went to seek diomed, son of tydeu, and him thei found
outsid hi hut, with hi arm, and around him hi comrad were
sleep with their shield beneath their head, but their spear were
driven into the ground erect on the spike of the butt, and afar shone
the bronz, like the lightn of father zeu. now that hero wa asleep,
and under him wa strewn the hide of an ox of the field, but beneath hi
head wa stretch a shine carpet. besid him went and stood knightli
nestor of gerenia and stir him with a touch of hi foot, and arous
him, chide him to hi face, sai: "wake, son of tydeu, why all
night long dost thou sleep? knowest thou not that the trojan on the
high place of the plain ar camp near the ship, and but a littl
space holdeth them apart?"

so spake he, and diomed sprang swiftli up out of sleep, and spake to
him wing word: "hard art thou, old man, and from toil thou never
ceasest. now ar there not other younger son of the achaian, who might
rous when there is need each of the king, go all around the host?
but thou, old man, art indomit."

and him knightli nestor of gerenia answer again, "nai verili, my son,
all thi that thou sayest is accord unto right. nobl son have i,
and there be mani of the host, of whom each man might go and call the
other. but a right great need hath assail the achaian. for now to
all of us it standeth on a razor's edg, either piti ruin for the
achaian, or life. but come now, if inde thou dost piti me, rous
swift aia, and the son of phyleu, for thou art younger than i."

so spake he, and diomed cast round hi shoulder the skin of a great
fieri lion, that reach to hi feet, and he grasp hi spear, and
start on hi wai, and rous the other from their place and led them
on.

now when thei had come among the assembl sentinel, thei found not the
leader of the sentinel asleep, but thei all sat wide awak with their
arm. and even as hound keep difficult guard round the sheep in a fold,
have heard a hardi wild beast that cometh through the wood among the
hill, and much clamour riseth round him of hound and men, and sleep
perisheth from them, even so sweet sleep did perish from their ey, as
thei watch through the wick night, for ever were thei turn toward
the plain, when thei heard the trojan move.

and that old man wa glad when he saw them, and hearten them with hi
sai, and call out to them he spake wing word: "even so now,
dear children, do ye keep watch, nor let sleep take ani man, lest we
becom a caus of rejoic to them that hate us."

so sai he sped through the moat, and thei follow with him, the
king of the argiv, who had been call to the council. and with them
went merion, and the gloriou son of nestor, for thei call them to
share their counsel. so thei went clean out of the delv foss, and sat
down in the open, where the mid-space wa clear of dead men fallen,
where fierc hector had turn again from destroi the argiv, when
night cover all. there sat thei down, and declar their sai each
to the other, and to them knightli nestor of gerenia began discours: "o
friend, is there then no man that would trust to hi own dare spirit,
to go among the great-heart trojan, if perchanc he might take some
straggler of the enemi, yea, or hear perchanc some rumour among the
trojan, and what thing thei devis among themselv, whether thei ar
fain to abid there by the ship, awai from the citi, or will retreat
again to the citi, now that thei have conquer the achaian? all thi
might such an on learn, and back to us come scathless: great would be
hi fame under heaven among all men, and a goodli gift will be given
him. for all the best men that bear swai by the ship, each and all of
them will give him a black ew, with her lamb at her foot, and ever will
he be present at feast and clan-drink."

so spake he, and thereon were thei all silent, hold their peac, but
to them spake diomed of the loud war-cry: "nestor, my heart and man
spirit urg me to enter the camp of the foemen hard by, even of the
trojan: and if some other man will follow with me, more comfort and
more courag will there be. if two go togeth, on befor anoth
perceiveth a matter, how there mai be gain therein; but if on alon
perceiv aught, even so hi wit is shorter, and weak hi devic."

so spake he, and mani were thei that wish to follow diomed. the two
aiant were will, men of ar' compani, and merion wa will,
and right will the son of nestor, and the son of atreu, menelao,
spearman renown, yea and the hardi odysseu wa will to steal into
the throng of trojan, for alwai dare wa hi heart within him. but
among them spake the king of men, agamemnon: "diomed son of tydeu,
joi of mine heart, thy comrad verili shalt thou choos, whomsoev thou
wilt, the best of them that be here, for mani ar eager. but do not
thou, out of rever heart, leav the better man behind, and give
thyself the wors companion, yield to regard for ani, and look to
their lineag, even if on be more kingli born."

so spake he, but wa in fear for the sake of fair-hair menelao. but
to them again answer diomed of the loud war-cry: "if inde ye bid
me choos myself a comrad, how then could i be unmind of godlik
odysseu, whose heart is pass eager, and hi spirit so man in all
manner of toil; and athen loveth him. but while he cometh with me,
even out of burn fire might we both return, for he excelleth in
understand."

then him again answer the steadfast nobl odysseu: "son of tydeu,
prais me not overmuch, neither blame me aught, for thou speakest thu
among the argiv that themselv know all. but let us be go, for
truli the night is wane, and near is the dawn, and the star have gone
onward, and the night ha advanc more than two watch, but the third
watch is yet left."

so spake thei, and har them in their dread armour. to the son of
tydeu did thrasymed steadfast in war give a two-edg sword (for hi
own wa left by hi ship) and a shield, and about hi head set a helm of
bull's hide, without cone or crest, that is call a skull-cap, and
keep the head of stalwart youth. and merion gave odysseu a bow and
a quiver, and a sword, and on hi head set a helm made of leather, and
with mani a thong wa it stiffli wrought within, while without the white
teeth of a boar of flash tusk were arrai thick set on either side,
well and cunningli, and in the midst wa fix a cap of felt.

so when these twain had har them in their dread armour, thei set
forth to go, and left there all the best of the host. and to them did
palla athen send forth an omen on the right, a heron hard by the wai,
and thei beheld it not with their ey, through the dark night, but thei
heard it shrill cry. and odysseu wa glad in the omen of the bird, and
prai to athen: "listen to me, thou child of aegi-bear zeu, that
ever in all toil dost stand by me, nor doth ani motion of mine escap
thee: but now again abov all be thou friendli to me, athen, and grant
that we come back with renown to the ship, have wrought a great work,
that shall be sorrow to the trojan."

next again prai diomed of the loud war-cry: "listen now likewis to
me, thou child of zeu, unweari maiden, and follow with me as when
with my father thou didst follow, even nobl tydeu, into thebe, when
he went forth as a messeng from the achaian. even so now stand thou
by me willingli, and protect me. and to thee will i sacrific a yearl
heifer, broad of brow, unbroken, that never yet hath man led below the
yoke. her will i sacrific to thee, and gild her horn with gold."

so spake thei in their prayer, and palla athen heard them. and when
thei had prai to the daughter of mighti zeu, thei went forth on their
wai, like two lion, through the dark night, amid the slaughter, amid
the slain men, through the arm and the black blood.

nai, nor the stout-heart trojan did hector suffer to sleep, but he
call togeth all the best of them, all that were chief and leader
of the trojan, them did he call togeth, and contriv a crafti
counsel: "who is there that would promis and perform for me thi deed,
for a great gift? yea hi reward shall be suffici. for i will give
him a chariot, and two hors of arch neck, the best that be at the
swift ship of the achaian, to whosoev shall dare the deed, and for
himself shall win glori. and the deed is thi; to go near the
swift-fare ship, and seek out whether the swift ship ar guard, as
of old, or whether alreadi, be subdu beneath our hand, the foe
ar devis of flight among themselv, and have no care to watch
through the night, be fordon with dread weari."

so spake he, but thei were all silent and held their peac. now there
wa among the trojan on dolon, the son of eumed the godlik herald,
and he wa rich in gold, and rich in bronz: and verili he wa ill
favour to look upon, but swift of foot. so he spake then a word to the
trojan and to hector: "hector, my heart and man spirit urg me to go
near the swift-fare ship, and spy out all. but come, i prai thee,
hold up the staff, and swear to me, that verili thou wilt give me the
hors and the chariot bedight with bronz that bear the nobl son of
peleu. but to thee i will prove no vain spy, nor disappoint thy hope.
for i will go straight to the camp, until i mai come to the ship of
agamemnon, where sure the chief ar like to hold council, whether to
fight or flee."

so spake he, and hector took the staff in hi hand, and sware to him:
"now let zeu himself be wit, the loud-thunder lord of hera, that
no other man of the trojan shall mount those hors, but thou, i
declar, shalt rejoic in them for ever."

so spake he, and sware a bootless oath thereto, and arous dolon to go.
and straightwai he cast on hi shoulder hi crook bow, and did on
thereov the skin of a grei wolf, and on hi head a helm of
ferret-skin, and took a sharp javelin, and went on hi wai to the ship
from the host. but he wa not like to come back from the ship and bring
word to hector.

but when he had left the throng of men and hors, he went forth eagerli
on the wai, and odysseu of the seed of zeu wa ware of him as he
approach, and said unto diomed: "lo, here is some man, diomed,
come from the camp, i know not whether as a spy to our ship, or to
strip certain of the dead men fallen. but let us suffer him to pass by
us a littl wai on the plain, and thereaft mai we rush on him and take
him speedili, and if it chanc that he outrun us by speed of foot, ever
do thou hem him in toward the ship and awai from the camp, rush on
him with thy spear, lest in ani wise he escap toward the citi."

so thei spake, and turn out of the path thei lai down among the
bodi of the dead; and swiftli dolon ran past them in hi witless.
but when he wa as far off as is the length of the furrow made by mule,
these twain ran after him, and he stood still when he heard the sound,
suppos in hi heart that thei were friend come from among the
trojan to turn him back, at the countermand of hector. but when thei
were about a spear-cast off, or even less, he knew them for foe-men, and
stir hi swift limb to fly, and speedili thei start in pursuit.

and as when two sharp-tooth hound, well skill in the chase, press
ever hard on a doe or a hare through a wood land, and it run
scream befor them, even so tydeu' son and odysseu the sacker of
citi cut dolon off from the host, and ever pursu hard after him. but
when he wa just about to come among the sentinel, in hi flight
toward the ship, then athen pour strength into the son of tydeu,
that none of the mail-clad achaian might boast himself the first to
smite, and he come second. and strong diomed leap upon him with the
spear, and said: "stand, or i shall overtak thee with the spear, and
methink that thou shalt not long avoid sheer destruct at my hand."

so spake he, and threw hi spear, but of hi own will he miss the man,
and pass over hi right shoulder the point of the polish spear
stuck fast in the ground: and dolon stood still, in great dread and
trembl, and the teeth chatter in hi mouth, and he wa green with
fear. then the twain came up with him, pant, and grip hi hand,
and weep he spake: "take me aliv, and i will ransom myself, for
within our hous there is bronz, and gold, and smithi iron, wherefrom
my father would do you grace with ransom untold, if he should learn that
i am aliv among the ship of the achaian."

then odysseu of the mani counsel answer him and said: "take courag,
let not death be in thy mind, but come speak and tell me truli all the
tale, why thu from the host lost thou come all alon among the ship,
through the black night, when other mortal ar sleep? comest thou to
strip certain of the dead men fallen, or did hector send thee forth to
spy out everyth at the hollow ship, or did thine own spirit urg
thee on?"

then dolon answer him, hi limb trembl beneath him: "with mani a
blind hope did hector lead my wit astrai, who vow to give me the
whole-hoov hors of the proud son of peleu, and hi car bedight with
bronz: and he bade me fare through the swift black night, and draw nigh
the foemen, and seek out whether the swift ship ar guard, as of old,
or whether, alreadi, be subdu beneath our hand, thei ar devis
of flight among themselv, and have no care to watch through the night,
be fordon with dread weari."

and smile thereat did odysseu of the mani counsel make him answer:
"verili now thy soul wa set on great reward, even the hors of the
wise son of aiako, but hard ar thei for mortal men to master, and hard
to drive, for ani but achil onli, whom a deathless mother bare. but
come, tell me all thi truli, all the tale: where when thou camest
hither didst thou leav hector, shepherd of the host, and where lie hi
warlik gear, and where hi hors? and how ar dispos the watch,
and the bed of the other trojan? and what counsel take thei among
themselv; ar thei fain to abid there nigh the ship afar from the
citi, or will thei return to the citi again, see that thei have
subdu unto them the achaiana?"

then dolon son of eumed made him answer again: "lo, now all these
thing will i recount to thee most truli. hector with them that ar
counsellor holdeth council by the barrow of godlik ilo, apart from
the din, but as for the guard whereof thou askest, oh hero, no chosen
watch nor guard keepeth the host. as for all the watch fire of the
trojan--on them is necess, so that thei watch and encourag each
other to keep guard; but, for the alli call from mani land, thei
ar sleep and to the trojan thei leav it to keep watch, for no wise
near dwell the children and wive of the alli." then odysseu of the
mani counsel answer him and said: "how stand it now, do thei sleep
amidst the hors-tame trojan, or apart? tell me clearli, that i mai
know."

then answer him dolon son of eumed: "verili all thi likewis will i
recount to thee truli. toward the sea lie the karian, and paionian of
the bend bow, and the leleg and kaukon, and nobl pelasgoi. and
toward thymbr the lykian have their place, and the haughti mysian,
and the phrygian that fight from chariot, and maionian lord of
chariot. but wherefor do ye inquir of me throughli concern all
these thing? for if ye desir to steal into the throng of trojan, lo,
there be those thracian, new comer, at the furthest point apart from
the rest, and among them their king rheso, son of eioneu. hi be the
fairest hors that ever i beheld, and the greatest, whiter than snow,
and for speed like the wind. and hi chariot is fashion well with
gold and silver, and golden is hi armour that he brought with him,
marvel, a wonder to behold; such as it is in no wise fit for mortal
men to bear, but for the deathless god. but bring me now to the swift
ship, or leav me here, when ye have bound me with a ruthless bond,
that ye mai go and make trial of me whether i have spoken to you truth,
or li."

then strong diomed, look grimli on him, said: "put no thought of
escap, dolon, in thy heart, for all the good tide thou hast brought,
sinc onc thou halt come into our hand. for if now we releas thee or
let thee go, on some later dai wilt thou come to the swift ship of the
achaian, either to plai the spy, or to fight in open war, but if
subdu beneath my hand thou lose thy life, never again wilt thou prove
a bane to the argiv."

he spake, and that other with strong hand wa about to touch hi chin,
and implor hi merci, but diomed smote him on the midst of the neck,
rush on him with the sword, and cut through both the sinew, and the
head of him still speak wa mingl with the dust. and thei strip
him of the casqu of ferret's skin from off hi head, and of hi
wolf-skin, and hi bend bow, and hi long spear, and these to athen
the giver of spoil did nobl odysseu hold aloft in hi hand, and he
prai and spake a word: "rejoic, o goddess, in these, for to thee
first of all the immort in olympu will we call for aid; nai, but yet
again send us on against the hors and the sleep place of the
thracian men."

so spake he aloud, and lift from him the spoil on high, and set them
on a tamarisk bush, and rais thereon a mark right plain to see,
gather togeth reed, and luxuri shoot of tamarisk, lest thei
should miss the place as thei return again through the swift dark
night.

so the twain went forward through the arm, and the black blood, and
quickli thei came to the compani of thracian men. now thei were
slumber, fordon with toil, but their goodli weapon lai by them on
the ground, all orderli, in three row, and by each man hi pair of
steed. and rheso slept in the midst, and besid him hi swift hors
were bound with thong to the topmost rim of the chariot. him odysseu
spi from afar, and show him unto diomed: "lo, diomed, thi is
the man, and these ar the hors whereof dolon that we slew did give us
tide. but come now, put forth thy great strength; it doth not behov
thee to stand idl with thy weapon: nai, loos the hors; or do thou
slai the men, and of the hors will i take heed."

so spake he, and into that other bright-ei athen breath might, and
he began slai on thi side and on that, and hideous went up their
groan, as thei were smitten with the sword, and the earth wa
redden with blood. and like as a lion cometh on flock without a
herdsman, on goat or sheep, and leap upon them with evil will, so set
the son of tydeu on the men of thrace, till he had slain twelv. but
whomsoev the son of tydeu drew near and smote with the sword, him did
odysseu of the mani counsel seiz by the foot from behind, and drag
him out of the wai, with thi design in hi heart, that the fair-mane
hors might lightli issu forth, and not trembl in spirit, when thei
trod over the dead; for thei were not yet us to dead men. but when the
son of tydeu came upon the king, he wa the thirteenth from whom he
took sweet life awai, as he wa breath hard, for an evil dream stood
abov hi head that night through the devic of athen. meanwhil the
hardi odysseu loos the whole-hoov hors, and bound them togeth
with thong, and drave them out of the press, smite them with hi bow,
sinc he had not taken thought to lift the shine whip with hi hand
from the chariot; then he whistl for a sign to nobl diomed.

but diomed stood and ponder what most dare deed he might do,
whether he should take the chariot, where lai the armour, and drag it
out by the pole, or lift it upon high, and so bear it forth, or whether
he should take the life awai from yet more of the thracian. and while
he wa ponder thi in hi heart, then athen drew near, and stood,
and spake to nobl diomed: "bethink thee of return, o son of
great-heart tydeu, to the hollow ship, lest perchanc thou come
thither in flight, and perchanc anoth god rous up the trojan
likewis."

so spake she, and he observ the voic of the utter of the goddess,
and swiftli he sprang upon the steed, and odysseu smote them with hi
bow, and thei sped to the swift ship of the achaian.

nai, nor a vain watch kept apollo of the silver bow, when he beheld
athen care for the son of tydeu; in wrath against her he stole among
the crowd press of trojan, and arous a counsellor of the thracian,
hippokoon, the nobl kinsman of rheso. and he start out of sleep,
when he beheld the place desol where the swift hors had stood, and
beheld the men gasp in the death struggl; then he groan aloud, and
call out by name to hi comrad dear. and a clamour aros and din
unspeak of the trojan hast togeth, and thei marvel at the
terribl deed, even all that the hero had wrought, and had gone
thereaft to the hollow ship.

but when those other came to the place where thei had slain the spy of
hector, there odysseu, dear to zeu, check the swift hors, and
tydeu' son, leap to the ground, set the bloodi spoil in the hand of
odysseu, and again mount, and lash the hors, and thei sped onward
noth loth. but nestor first heard the sound, and said: "o friend,
leader and counsellor of the argiv, shall i be wrong or speak sooth?
for my heart bid me speak. the sound of swift-foot hors strike
upon mine ear. would to god that odysseu and that strong diomed mai
even instantli be drive the whole-hoov hors from among the
trojan; but terribl i fear in mine heart lest the bravest of the
argiv suffer aught through the trojan' battl din."

not yet wa hi whole word spoken, when thei came themselv, and leap
down to earth, but gladli the other welcom them with hand-clasp,
and with honei word. and first did knightli nestor of gerenia make
question: "come, tell me now, renown odysseu, great glori of the
achaian, how ye twain took those hors? wa it by steal into the
press of trojan? or did some god meet you, and give you them? wondrou
like ar thei to rai of the sun. ever with the trojan do i mix in
fight, nor methink do i tarri by the ship, old warrior as i am. but
never yet saw i such hors, nor deem of such. nai, methink some god
must have encount you and given you these. for both of you doth zeu
the cloud-gather love, and the maiden of aegi-bear zeu,
bright-ei athen."

and him answer odysseu of the mani counsel: "o nestor, son of
neleu, great glori of the achaian, lightli could a god, if so he
would, give even better steed than these, for the god ar far stronger
than we. but as for these new-come hors, whereof, old man, thou askest
me, thei ar thracian, but their lord did brave diomed slai, and
besid him all the twelv best men of hi compani. the thirteenth man
wa a spy we took near the ship, on that hector and the other haughti
trojan sent forth to pry upon our camp."

so spake he, and drave the whole-hoov hors through the foss,
laugh; and the other achaian went with him joyfulli. but when thei
had come to the well-built hut of the son of tydeu, thei bound the
hors with well-cut thong, at the manger where the swift hors of
diomed stood eat honei-sweet barlei.

and odysseu place the bloodi spoil of dolon in the stern of the ship,
that thei might make readi a sacr offer to athen. but for
themselv, thei went into the sea, and wash off the thick sweat from
shin, and neck, and thigh. but when the wave of the sea had wash the
thick sweat from their skin, and their heart reviv again, thei went
into polish bath, and were cleans.

and when thei had wash, and anoint them with oliv oil, thei sat
down at supper, and from the full mix bowl thei drew off the
honei-sweet wine, and pour it forth to athen.



book xi.

    despit the gloriou deed of agamemnon, the trojan press
    hard on the achaian, and the begin of evil come on
    patroklo.

now dawn aros from her couch besid proud tithono, to bring light to
the immort and to mortal men. but zeu sent forth fierc discord unto
the fleet ship of the achaian, and in her hand she held the signal of
war. and she stood upon the huge black ship of odysseu, that wa in the
midst, to make her voic heard on either side, both to the hut of aia,
son of telamon, and to the hut of achil, for these twain, trust
in their valour and the might of their hand, had drawn up their trim
ship at the two end of the line. there stood the goddess and cri
shrilli in a great voic and terribl, and mighti strength she set in
the heart of each of the achaian, to war and fight unceasingli. and
straightwai to them war grew sweeter than to depart in the hollow ship
to their dear nativ land.

then each man gave in charg hi hors to hi chariot, to hold them
in by the foss, well and orderli, and themselv as heavi men at arm
were hast about, be har in their gear, and unquench the
cry aros into the dawn. and long befor the chariot were thei
arrai at the foss, but after them a littl wai came up the driver.
and among them the son of krono arous an evil din, and from abov
rain down dew dank with blood out of the upper air, for that he wa
about to send mani strong men down to hade.

but the trojan on the other side, on the high ground of the plain,
gather them around great hector, and nobl polydamu, and aineia that
as a god wa honour by the peopl of the trojan, and the three son
of antenor, polybo, and nobl agenor, and young akama like unto the
immort. and hector in the foremost rank bare the circl of hi
shield. and as from amid the cloud appeareth glitter a bane star,
and then again sinketh within the shadowi cloud, even so hector would
now appear among the foremost rank, and again would be give command
in the rear, and all in bronz he shone, like the lightn of
aegi-bear father zeu.

and even as when reaper over against each other drive their swath
through a rich man's field of wheat or barlei, and thick fall the
hand, even so the trojan and achaian leap upon each other,
destroi, and neither side took thought of ruinou flight; and equal
head had the battl, and thei rush on like wolv. and woful discord
wa glad at the sight, for she alon of the god wa with them in the
war; for the other god were not besid them, but in peac thei sat
within their hall, where the goodli mansion of each wa build in the
fold of olympu. and thei all were blame the son of krono, lord of
the storm-cloud, for that he will to give glori to the trojan. but of
them took the father no heed, but aloof from the other he sat apart,
glad in hi glori, look toward the citi of the trojan, and the ship
of the achaian, and the glitter of bronz, and the slayer and the
slain.

so long as morn wa, and the sacr dai still wax, so long did the
shaft of both host strike, and the folk fell, but about the hour when
a woodman maketh readi hi meal, in the dell of a mountain, when he
hath tire hi hand with fell tall tree, and weari cometh on
hi soul, and desir of sweet food taketh hi heart, even then the
danaan by their valour brake the battalion, and call on their
comrad through the line. and in rush agamemnon first of all, where
thickest clash the battalion, there he set on, and with him all the
well-greav achaian. footmen kept slai footmen as thei were driven
in flight, and horsemen slai horsemen with the sword, and from
beneath them rose up the dust from the plain, stir by the thunder
hoov of hors. and the lord agamemnon, ever slai, follow after,
call on the argiv. and as when ruinou fire falleth on dens
woodland, and the whirl wind beareth it everywher, and the thicket
fall utterli befor it, be smitten by the onset of the fire, even so
beneath agamemnon son of atreu fell the head of the trojan as thei
fled; and mani strong-neck hors rattl empti car along the
highwai of the battl, lack their nobl chariot; but thei on the
earth were ly, far more dear to the vultur than to their wive. but
hector did zeu draw forth from the dart and the dust, from the
man-slai, and the blood, and the din, and the son of atreu follow
on, cry eagerli to the danaan. and past the tomb of ancient ilo,
son of dardano, across the mid plain, past the place of the wild
fig-tree thei sped, make for the citi, and ever the son of atreu
follow shout, and hi invinc hand were defil with gore. but
when thei were come to the skaian gate, and the oak-tree, there then
thei halt, and await each other. but some were still in full flight
through the mid plain, like kine that a lion hath scatter, come on
them in the dead of night; all hath he scatter, but to on sheer death
appeareth instantli, and he breaketh her neck first, seiz her with
strong teeth, and thereaft swalloweth greedili the blood and all the
gut; even so lord agamemnon son of atreu follow hard on the trojan,
ever slai the hindmost man, and thei were scatter in flight, and on
face or back mani of them fell from their chariot beneath the hand of
agamemnon, for mightili he rage with the spear. but when he wa
nowabout come below the citi, and the steep wall, then did the father
of men and god sit him down on the crest of mani-fountain ida, from
heaven descend, with the thunderbolt in hi hand.

then sent he forth iri of the golden wing, to bear hi word: "up and
go, swift iri, and tell thi word unto hector: so long as he see
agamemnon, shepherd of the host, rage among the foremost fighter, and
ruin the rank of men, so long let him hold back, but bid the rest of
the host war with the foe in strong battl. but when, or smitten with
the spear or wound with arrow shot, agamemnon leapeth into hi
chariot, then will i give hector strength to slai till he come even to
the well-timber ship, and the sun go down, and sacr dark draw
on."

so swift-foot iri spake to hector the word of zeu and depart, but
hector with hi har leap from the chariot to the ground, and,
shake hi sharp spear went through all the host, stir up hi men
to fight, and he rous the dread din of battl. and thei wheel round,
and stood and face the achaian, while the argiv on the other side
strengthen their battalion. and battl wa made readi, and thei stood
over against each other, and agamemnon first rush in, be eager to
fight far in front of all.

tell me now, ye muse that inhabit mansion in olympu, who wa he that
first encount agamemnon, whether of the trojan themselv, or of
their alli renown? it wa iphidama, son of antenor, great and
mighti, who wa nurtur in thrace rich of soil, the mother of sheep; he
it wa that then encount agamemnon son of atreu. and when thei were
come near in onset against each other, atreu' son miss, and hi spear
wa turn asid, but iphidama smote him on the girdl, below the
corslet, and himself press on, trust to hi heavi hand, but pierc
not the gleam girdl, for long er that the point struck on the
silver, and wa bent like lead. then wide-rule agamemnon caught the
spear with hi hand and drew it toward him furious, like a lion, and
snatch it out of the hand of iphidama, and smote hi neck with the
sword, and unstrung hi limb. so even there he fell, and slept a sleep
of bronz most piteous. then did agamemnon son of atreu strip him,
and went bear hi goodli har into the throng of the achaian.

now when koon beheld him, koon antenor's eldest son, illustri among
men, strong sorrow came on him, cover hi ey, for hi brother's
fall: and he stood on on side with hi spear, and unmark of nobl
agamemnon smote him on the mid-arm, beneath the elbow, and clean through
went the point of the shine spear. then agamemnon king of men
shudder, yet not even so did he ceas from battl and war, but rush
against koon, grasp hi wind-nurtur spear. verili then koon seiz
right lustili by the foot iphidama, hi brother, and hi father's son,
and call to all the best of hi men; but him, as he drag the dead
through the press, beneath hi bossi shield agamemnon wound with a
bronz-shod spear, and unstrung hi limb, and drew near and cut off hi
head over iphidama. there the son of antenor, at the hand of
agamemnon the king, fill up the measur of their fate, and went down
within the hous of hade.

but agamemnon rang among the rank of men, with spear, and sword, and
great stone for throw, while yet the blood well warm from hi
wound. but when the wound wax dry, and the blood ceas to flow, then
keen pang came on the might of the son of atreu. then leap he into
hi chariot, and bade hi chariot drive to the hollow ship, for he
wa sore vex at heart. and he call in a pierc voic, and shout
to the danaan: "o friend, leader and counsellor of the argiv, do
ye now ward from the seafar ship the harsh din of battl, for zeu
the counsellor suffer me not all dai to war with the trojan."

so spake he, and hi chariot lash the fair-mane steed toward the
hollow ship, and thei flew onward noth loth, and their breast were
cover with foam, and their belli were stain with dust, as thei
bore the wound king awai from the war.

but hector, when he beheld agamemnon depart, cri to the trojan and
lykian with a loud shout: "ye trojan and lykian, and dardanian that
war in close fight, be men, my friend, and be mind of your impetu
valour. the best man of them hath depart and to me hath zeu, the son
of krono, given great renown. but straightwai drive ye the whole-hoov
hors against the mighti danaan, that ye mai be the master and bear
awai the higher glori."

so spake he, and arous the might and spirit of everi man. himself with
high thought he fare among the foremost, and fell upon the fight; like
a roar blast, that leapeth down and stirreth the violet-colour
deep. there whom first, whom last did he slai, even hector, son of
priam, when zeu vouchsaf him renown?

asaio first, and autonoo, and opit, and dolop, son of klytio, and
opheltio, and agelao, and aisymno, and oro, and hipponoo steadfast
in the fight; these leader of the danaan he slew, and thereaft smote
the multitud, even as when the west wind driveth the cloud of the
white south wind, smite with deep storm, and the wave swelleth huge,
roll onward, and the sprai is scatter on high beneath the rush of
the wander wind; even so mani head of the host were smitten by
hector.

there had ruin begun, and deed remedeless been wrought, and now would
all the achaian have fled and fallen among the ship, if odysseu had
not call to diomed, son of tydeu: "tydeu' son, what ail us that
we forget our impetu valour? nai, come hither, friend, and take thy
stand by me, for verili it will be shame if hector of the glanc helm
take the ship."

and to him strong diomed spake in answer: "verili will i abid and
endur, but short will be all our profit, for zeu, the cloud-gather,
clearli desireth to give victori to the trojan rather than to us."

he spake, and drave thymbraio from hi chariot to the ground, smite
him with the spear in the left breast, and odysseu smote molion the
godlik squir of that princ. these then thei let be, when thei had
made them ceas from war, and then the twain fare through the crowd
with a din, as when two boar full of valour fall on the hunt hound;
so rush thei on again, and slew the trojan, while gladli the achaian
took breath again in their flight from nobl hector.

but hector quickli spi them among the rank, and rush upon them
shout, and with him follow the battalion of the trojan. and
behold him, diomed of the loud war-cry shudder, and straightwai
spake to odysseu that wa hard by: "lo, on us thi ruin, even mighti
hector, is roll: let us stand, and await him, and ward off hi
onset."

so spake he, and swai and sent forth hi far-shadow spear, and
smote him nor miss, for he aim at the head, on the summit of the
crest, and bronz by bronz wa turn, nor reach hi fair flesh, for
it wa stop by the threefold helm with it socket, that phoebu
apollo to hector gave. but hector sprang back a wondrou wai, and
mingl with the throng, and he rest, fallen on hi knee, and lean
on the ground with hi stout hand, and dark night veil hi ey.

but while tydeu' son wa follow after hi spear-cast, far through
the foremost fighter, where he saw it sink into the earth, hector gat
breath again, and leap back into hi chariot drave out into the
throng, and avoid black fate. then rush on with hi spear mighti
diomed spake to him: "dog, thou art now again escap from death; yet
came ill veri nigh thee: but now hath phoebu apollo save thee, to whom
thou must sure prai when thou goest amid the clash of spear. verili i
will slai thee yet when i meet thee hereaft, if ani god is helper of
me too. now will i make after the rest, whomsoev i mai seiz."

so spake he, and strip the son of paeon, spearman renown. but
alexandro, the lord of fair-tress helen, aim with hi arrow at
tydeid, shepherd of the host; lean as he aim against a pillar on
the barrow, by men fashion, of ilo, son of dardano, an elder of the
peopl in time gone by. now diomed wa strip the shine corslet
of strong agastropho from about hi breast, and the shield from hi
shoulder, and hi strong helmet, when pari drew the centr of hi bow;
nor vainli did the shaft fly from hi hand, for he smote the flat of the
right foot of diomed, and the arrow went clean through, and stood
fix in the earth; and right sweetli laugh pari leap up from hi
lair, and boast, and said: "thou art smitten, nor vainli hath the dart
flown forth; would that i had smitten thee in the nether belli, and
taken thy life awai. so should the trojan have breath again from
their troubl, thei that shudder at thee, as bleat goat at a lion."

but him answer strong diomed, no wise dismai: "bowman, revil,
proud in thy bow of horn, thou gaper after girl, verili if thou madest
trial in full har, man to man, thy bow and shower of shaft would
noth avail thee, but now thou boastest vainli, for that thou hast
graze the sole of my foot. i care not, more than if a woman had struck
me or a senseless boi, for feebl is the dart of a craven man and a
worthless. in other wise from my hand, yea, if it do but touch, the
sharp shaft flieth, and straightwai layeth low it man, and torn ar the
cheek of hi wife, and fatherless hi children, and he, redden the
earth with hi blood, doth rot awai, more bird than women round him."

so spake he, and odysseu, spearman renown, drew near, and stood in
front of him, and diomed sat down behind him, and drew the sharp arrow
from hi foot, and a sore pang pass through hi flesh. then sprang he
into hi car, and bade hi chariot drive back to the hollow ship,
for he wa hurt at heart. then odysseu, spearman renown, wa left
alon, nor did on of the argiv abid by him, for fear had fallen on
them all. then in heavi he spoke to hi own great-heart spirit:
"ah me, what thing shall befal me! a great evil it is if i flee, in
dread of the throng; yet wors is thi, if i be taken all alon, for the
other danaan bath kronion scatter in flight. but wherefor doth my
heart thu convers with herself? for i know that thei ar coward, who
flee the fight, but whosoev is a hero in war, him it mainli behov to
stand stubbornli, whether he be smitten, or whether he smite anoth."

while he ponder thu in heart and spirit, the rank came on of the
trojan under shield, and hem him in the midst, set among them
their own bane. and even as when hound and young men in their bloom
press round a boar, and he cometh forth from hi deep lair, whet hi
white tusk between crook jaw, and round him thei rush, and the sound
of the gnash of tusk ariseth, and straightwai thei await hi
assault, so dread as he is, even so then round odysseu, dear to zeu,
rush the trojan. and first he wound nobl deiopit, from abov, in
the shoulder, leap on him with sharp spear, and next he slew thoon
and ennomo, and next chersidama, be leapt down from hi chariot, he
smote with the spear on the navel beneath the bossi shield, and he fell
in the dust and clutch the ground with the hollow of hi hand. these
left he, and wound charop, son of hippaso, with the spear, the
brother of high-born soko. and to help him came soko, a godlik man,
and stood hard by him, and spake sai: "o renown odysseu,
insati of craft and toil, to-dai shalt thou either boast over two
son of hippaso, as have slain two such men of might, and strip
their har, or smitten by my spear shaft lose thy life."

so spake he, and smote him on the circl of hi shield; through the
shine shield pass the strong spear, and through the fair-dight
corslet it wa thrust, and tore clean off the flesh of the flank, but
palla athen did not suffer it to mingl with the bowel of the hero,
and odysseu knew that the dart had in nowis light on a deadli spot,
and draw backward, he spake unto soko "ah, wretch on, verili
sheer destruct is come upon thee. sure thou hast made me to ceas
from war among the trojan, but here to thee i declar that slai
and black fate will be upon thee thi dai, and beneath my spear
overthrown shalt thou give glori to me, and thy soul to hade of the
nobl steed."

he spake, and the other turn, and start to flee, and in hi back as
he turn he fix the spear, between the shoulder, and drave it
through the breast. then he fell with a crash, and nobl odysseu
boast over him: "ah, soko, son of wise-heart hippaso the tamer of
hors, the end of death hath come upon and caught thee, nor hast thou
avoid. ah, wretch, thy father and ladi mother shall not close thine
ey in death, but bird that eat flesh raw shall tear thee, shroud
thee in the multitud of their wing. but to me, if i die, the nobl
achaian will yet give due burial."

so spake he, and drew the mighti spear of wise-heart soko forth from
hi flesh, and from hi bossi shield, and hi blood flow forth when
the spear wa drawn awai, and afflict hi spirit. and the
great-heart trojan when thei beheld the blood of odysseu, with
clamour through the throng came all togeth against him. but he gave
ground, and shout unto hi comrad: thrice he shout then, as loud
as man's mouth might cry, and thrice did menelao dear to zeu hear hi
call, and quickli he spake to aia that wa hard by him: "aia, of the
seed of zeu, child of telamon, lord of the host, the shout of odysseu
of the hardi heart ring round me, like as though the trojan were
oppress him alon among them, and had cut him off in the strong
battl. nai, let us speed into the throng, for better it is to rescu
him. i fear lest he suffer some evil, be alon among the trojan, so
brave as he is, and lest great sorrow for hi loss come upon the
danaan."

so spake he, and led the wai, and the other follow him, a godlik man.
then found thei odysseu dear to zeu, and the trojan beset him like
tawni jackal from the hill round a wound horn stag, that a man
hath smitten with an arrow from the bow-string, and the stag hath fled
from him by speed of foot, as long as the blood is warm and hi limb
ar strong, but when the swift arrow hath overcom him, then do the
raven jackal rend him in the hill, in a dark wood, and then god
leadeth a murder lion thither, and the jackal flee befor him, but
he rendeth them, so then, round wise-heart odysseu of the crafti
counsel, did the trojan gather, mani and mighti, but that hero
thrust on with the spear held off the pitiless dai. then aia drew
near, bear hi shield like a tower, and stood therebi, and the
trojan fled from him, where each man might. then warlik menelao led
odysseu out of the press, hold him by the hand, till the squir
drave up the hors.

then aia leap on the trojan, and slew doyrklo, bastard son of
priam, and thereaft wound he pandoko, and he wound lysandro, and
pyraso, and pylart. and as when a brim river cometh down upon the
plain, in winter flood from the hill, swollen by the rain of zeu, and
mani dry oak and mani pine it sucketh in, and much soil it casteth
into the sea, even so renown aia charg them, pursu through the
plain, slai hors and men. nor wist hector thereof at all, for he
wa fight on the left of all the battl, by the bank of the river
skamandro, wherebi chiefli fell the head of men, and an unquench
cry aros, around great nestor and warlik idomeneu. and hector with
them wa war, and terribl thing did he, with the spear and in
horsemanship, and he ravag the battalion of the young men. nor would
the nobl achaian have yet given ground from the path, if alexandro,
the lord of fair-tress helen, had not stai machaon shepherd of the
host in hi valor deed, and smitten him on the right shoulder with a
three-barb arrow. therefor were the achaian, breath valour, in
great fear, lest men should seiz machaon in the turn of the fight.

then idomeneu spake to nobl nestor: "o nestor, son of neleu, great
glori of the achaian, aris, get thee up into thy chariot, and with
thee let machaon go, and swiftli drive to the ship the whole-hoov
hors. for a leech is worth mani other men, to cut out arrow, and
spread sooth medica."

so spake he, nor did knightli nestor of gerenia disobei him, but
straightwai gat up into hi chariot, and with him went machaon, son of
asklepio the good leech, and he lash the hors, and willingli flew
thei forward to the hollow ship, where thei desir to be.

but kebrion, the chariot of hector, beheld the trojan driven in
flight, and spake to him, and said: "hector, here do we contend with the
danaan, at the limit of the wail war, but, lo, the other trojan ar
driven in flight confusedli, men and hors. and aia son of telamon is
drive them; well i know him, for wide is the shield round hi
shoulder. nai, let us too urg thither the hors and chariot, there
where horsemen and footmen thickest in the forefront of evil strife ar
slai each other, and the cry goe up unquench."

so spake he, and smote the fair-mane hors with the shrill-sound
whip, and thei felt the lash, and fleetli bore the swift chariot among
the trojan and achaian, tread on the dead, and the shield, and
with blood wa sprinkl all the axl-tree beneath, and the rim round
the car with the drop from the hoov of the hors, and with drop
from the tire about the wheel. and hector wa eager to enter the press
of men, and to leap in and break through, and evil din of battl he
brought among the danaan, and brief space rest he from smite with
the spear. nai, but he rang among the rank of other men, with spear,
and sword, and with great stone, but he avoid the battl of aia son
of telamon.

now father zeu, throne in the highest, rous dread in aia, and he
stood in amaz, and cast behind him hi sevenfold shield of bull's hide,
and gaze round in fear upon the throng, like a wild beast, turn thi
wai and that, and slowli retreat step by step. and as when hound and
countri folk drive a tawni lion from the mid-fold of the kine, and
suffer him not to carri awai the fattest of the herd; all night thei
watch, and he in great desir for the flesh maketh hi onset, but take
noth therebi, for thick the dart fly from strong hand against him,
and the burn brand, and these he dread for all hi furi, and in the
dawn he departeth with vex heart; even so at that time depart aia,
vex at heart, from among the trojan, right unwillingli, for he fear
sore for the ship of the achaian. and as when a lazi ass go past a
field hath the better of the boi with him, an ass that hath had mani a
cudgel broken about hi side, and he fareth into the deep crop, and
wasteth it, while the boi smite him with cudgel, and feebl is the
forc of them, but yet with might and main thei drive him forth, when he
hath had hi fill of fodder, even so did the high-heart trojan and
alli, call from mani land, smite great aia, son of telamon, with
dart on the centr of hi shield, and ever follow after him. and aia
would now be mind of hi impetu valour, and turn again, and hold
at bai the battalion of the hors-tame trojan, and onc more he
would turn him again to flee. yet he hinder them all from make their
wai to the fleet ship, and himself stood and smote between the trojan
and the achaian, and the spear from strong hand stuck some of them in
hi great shield, fain to win further, and mani or ever thei reach hi
white bodi stood fast halfwai in the earth, right eager to sate
themselv with hi flesh.

so thei fought like unto burn fire.

but the mare of neleu all sweat bare nestor out of the battl, and
also carri thei machaon, shepherd of the host. then the nobl
achil, swift of foot, beheld and wa ware of him, for achil wa
stand by the stern of hi great ship, watch the dire toil, and the
woful rout of battl. and straightwai he spake to hi own comrad,
patroklo, call to him from besid the ship, and he heard, and from
the hut he came, like unto ar; and thi to him wa the begin of
evil. then the strong son of menoitio spake first to achil: "why
dost thou call me, achil, what need hast thou of me?"

then swift-foot achil answer him and spake: "nobl son of
menoitio, dear to my heart, now methink that the achaian will stand
in prayer about my knee, for need no longer toler cometh upon them.
but go now, patroklo dear to zeu, and ask nestor who is thi that he
bringeth wound from the war. verili from behind he is most like
machaon, that child of asklepio, but i beheld not the ey of the man,
for the hors sped past me, strain forward eagerli."

so spake he and patroklo obei hi dear comrad, and start and ran
past the ship, and the hut of the achaian.

now when thei came to the hut of the son of neleu, thei light down on
the bounteou earth, and the squir, eurymedon, loos the hors of
that old man from the car, and thei dri the sweat from their doublet,
stand befor the breez, by the shore of the sea, and thereaft came
thei to the hut, and sat them down on chair. and fair-tress hekamed
mix for them a mess, hekamed that the old man won from tenedo, when
achil sack it, and she wa the daughter of great-heart arsinoo,
and her the achaian chose out for him, becaus alwai in counsel he
excel them all. first she drew befor them a fair tabl, polish
well, with feet of cyanu, and thereon a vessel of bronz, with onion,
for relish to the drink, and pale honei, and the grain of sacr barlei,
and besid it a right goodli cup, that the old man brought from home,
emboss with stud of gold, and four handl there were to it, and
round each two golden dove were feed, and to the cup were two feet
below. anoth man could scarc have lift the cup from the tabl, when
it wa full, but nestor the old rais it easili. in thi cup the woman,
like unto the goddess, mix a mess for them, with pramnian wine, and
therein grate chees of goat' milk, with a grater of bronz, and
scatter white barlei thereov, and bade them drink, whena she had
made readi the mess.

so when the twain had drunk, and driven awai parch thirst, thei took
their pleasur in discours, speak each to the other. now patroklo
stood at the door, a godlik man, and when the old man beheld him, he
aros from hi shine chair, and took him by the hand, and led him in,
and bade him be seat. but patroklo, from over against him, wa for
refus, and spake and said: "no time to sit have i, old man,
fosterl of zeu, nor wilt thou persuad me. rever and dread is he
that sent me forth to ask thee who thi man is that thou bringest home
wound. nai, but i know myself, for i see machaon, shepherd of the
host. and now will i go back again, a messeng, to speak a word to
achil. and well dost thou know, old man, fosterl of zeu, how
terribl a man he is; lightli would he blame even on that is
blameless."

then knightli nestor of gerenia answer him again: "wherefor is
achil thu sorri for the son of the achaian, for as mani as ar
wound with dart? he knoweth not at all what grief hath arisen in the
camp: for the best men lie in the ship, wound by shaft or smitten by
spear. wound with the shaft is strong diomed, son of tydeu, and
smitten is odysseu, spearman renown, and agamemnon, and thi other
have i but newli carri out of battl, wound with an arrow from the
bowstr. but achil, for all hi valianc, careth not for the
danaan, nor piti them at all. doth he wait till the fleet ship hard
by the shore shall burn in the consum fire, and till we be slain on
upon anoth? nai, but even now speak thou thu and thu to wise-heart
achil, if perchanc he will obei thee. who know but that, god
help, thou mightst stir hi spirit with thy persuad? and good is
the persuas of a friend. but if in hi heart he be shun some
oracl of god, and hi ladi mother hath told him somewhat from zeu,
natheless let him send forth thee, and let the rest of the host of the
myrmidon follow with thee, if perchanc ani light shall aris from thee
to the danaan; and let him give thee hi fair har, to bear into the
war, if perchanc the trojan mai take thee for him, and withhold them
from the strife, and the warlik son of the achaian might take breath,
be weari; for brief is the breath time in battl. and lightli
might ye, be unweari, drive men weari in the war unto the citi,
awai from the ship and the hut."

so spake he, and rous hi heart within hi breast, and he start and
ran by the ship to achil of the seed of aiako.



book xii.

    how the trojan and alli broke within the wall of the
    achaian.

so in the hut the strong son of menortio wa tend the wound
eurypylo, but still thei fought confusedli, the argiv and trojan.
nor were the foss of the danaan and their wide wall abov long to
protect them, the wall thei had build for defenc of the ship, and
the foss thei had drawn round about; for neither had thei given goodli
hecatomb to the god, that it might guard with it bound their swift
ship and rich spoil. nai, maugr the deathless god wa it build,
wherefor it abod steadfast for no long time. while hector yet live,
and yet achil kept hi wrath, and unsack wa the citi of priam the
king, so long the great wall of the achaian likewis abod steadfast.
but when all the bravest of the trojan di, and mani of the
argiv,--some were taken, and some were left,--and the citi of priam
wa sack in the tenth year, and the argiv had gone back in their
ship to their own dear countri, then verili did poseidon and apollo
take counsel to wash awai the wall, bring in the might of the river,
of all that flow from the hill of ida to the sea. rheso there wa, and
heptaporo, and kareso, and rhodio, greniko, and aisepo, and goodli
skamandro, and simoei, wherebi mani shield and helm fell in the
dust, and the gener of men half divin; the mouth of all these
water did phoebu apollo turn togeth, and for nine dai he drave
their stream against the wall; and still zeu rain unceasingli, that
the quicker he might mingl the wall with the salt sea. and the shaker
of the earth, with hi trident in hi hand, wa himself the leader, and
sent forth into the wave all the foundat of beam and stone that
the achaian had laid with toil, and made all smooth by the strong
current of the hellespont, and cover again the great beach with sand,
when he had swept awai the wall, and turn the river back to flow in
their channel, where of old thei pour down their fair flow of water.

so were poseidon and apollo to do in the aftertim; but then war and the
din of war sound about the well-build wall, and the beam of the
tower rang beneath the stroke; while the argiv, subdu by the
scourg of zeu, were pen and driven in by the hollow ship, in dread
of hector, the mighti maker of flight, but he, as aforetim, fought like
a whirlwind. and as when, among hound and hunt men, a boar or lion
wheeleth him about, rage in hi strength, and these arrai themselv
in fashion like a tower, and stand up against him, cast mani javelin
from their hand; but never is hi stout heart confus nor afraid, and
hi courag is hi bane, and often he wheeleth him about, and maketh
trial of the rank of men, and wheresoev he maketh onset there the
rank of men give wai, even so hector went and besought hi comrad
through the press, and spur them on to cross the dyke. but hi
swift-foot hors dare not, but loud thei neigh, stand by the
sheer edg, for the wide foss affright them, neither easi to leap
from hard by, nor to cross, for overhang bank stood round about it
all on either hand, and abov it wa furnish with sharp stake that
the son of the achaian had plant there, thick set and great, a
bulwark against hostil men. therebi not lightli might a hors enter,
draw a well-wheel chariot; but the footmen were eager, if thei
might accomplish it. then polydama drew near valiant hector, and spake
to him: "hector and ye other leader of the trojan and alli,
foolishli do we drive our fleet hors through the dyke; nai right hard
it is to cross, for sharp stake stand in it, and over against them the
wall of the achaian. therebi none mai go down and fight in chariot,
for strait is the place wherein, methink, we might come by a mischief.
for if zeu that thunder on high is utterli to destroi them in hi evil
will, and is mind to help the trojan, verili then i too would desir
that even instantli thi might be, that the achaian should perish here
nameless far from argo: but and if thei turn again, and we flee back
from among the ship, and rush into the delv ditch, then methink that
not even on from among us to bear the tide will win back to the citi
befor the forc of the achaian when thei ralli. but come as i declar,
let us all obei. let our squir hold the hors by the dyke, while we
be har in our gear as foot soldier follow all togeth with
hector, and the achaian will not withstand us, if inde the band of
death be made fast upon them."

so spake polydama, and hi wise word pleas hector well, and
straightwai in hi har he leap from hi chariot to the ground. nor
were the other trojan gather upon the chariot, but thei all leap
forth, when thei beheld goodli hector. there each gave it into the
charg of hi own chariot, to keep the hors orderli there by the
foss. and thei divid, and arrai themselv, and order in five
compani thei follow with the leader.

now thei that went with hector and nobl polydama, these were most, and
bravest, and most were eager to break the wall, and fight by the hollow
ship; and with them follow kebrion for the third, for hector had
left anoth man with hi chariot, a weaker warrior than kebrion. the
second compani pari led, and alkathoo, and agenor: and the third
compani heleno led, and godlik deiphobo,--two son of priam,--the
third wa the warrior asio, asio hyrtako' son, whom hi tall sorrel
steed brought out of arisb, from the river selleei. and of the fourth
compani wa the brave son of anchis leader, even aineia; and with
him were two son of antenor, archelocho and akama, both well skill
in all warfar.

and sarpedon led the gloriou alli, and to be with him he chose
glauko and warlik asteropaio, for thei seam to him to be manifestli
the bravest of all after himself but he wa excel, yea, abov all
the host. and these when thei had arrai on anoth with
well-fashion shield of bull' hide, went straight and eager against
the danaan, nor deem that thei could longer resist them, but that
themselv should fall on the black ship.

then the rest of the trojan and the far-fame alli obei the counsel
of blameless polydama, but asio, son of hyrtako, leader of men,
will not to leav hi hors there, and hi squir the chariot, but
with them he drew near the swift ship, fond man! for never wa he,
avoid evil fate, to return, rejoic in hi hors and chariot,
back from the ship to windi ilio. nai, er that the fate of ill name
over-shadow him, by the spear of idomeneu, the haughti son of
deukalion. for asio went against the left flank of the ship, wherebi
the achaian return out of the plain with chariot and hors: there
he drave through hi hors and hi car, nor found he the door shut on
the gate, and the long bar, but men were hold them open if perchanc
thei might save ani of their comrad flee out of the battl toward
the ship. straight therebi held he hi hors with unswerv aim, and
hi men follow him, cry shrilli, for thei deem that the achaian
could no longer hold them off, but that themselv would fall on the
black ship: fool, for in the gate thei found two men of the bravest,
the high-heart son of the warrior lapitha, on the son of
peirithoo, strong polypoit, and on leonteu, peer of ar the bane
of men. these twain stood in front of the lofti gate, like high-crest
oak tree in the hill, that for ever abid the wind and rain, firm
fix with root great and long; even so these twain, trust to the
mighti of their hand, abod the come of great asio, and fled
not. but straight came the trojan against the well-build wall,
hold their shield of dry bull' hide on high, with mighti clamour,
round the princ asio, and iameno, and orest, and adama, son of
asio, and thoon, and oinomao. but the other twain for a while, be
within the wall, urg the well-greav achaian to fight for the ship;
but when thei saw the trojan assail the wall, while the danaan
cri and turn in flight, then forth rush the twain, and fought in
front of the gate like wild boar that in the mountain abid the
assail crew of men and dog, and charg on either flank thei
crush the wood around them, cut it at the root, and the clatter of
their tusk wage loud, till on smite them and take their life awai: so
clatter the bright bronz on the breast of the twain, as thei were
smitten in close fight, for right hardili thei fought, trust to the
host abov them, and to their own strength.

for the men abov were cast with stone from the well-build
tower, in defenc of themselv and of the hut, and of the
swift-fare ship. and like snowflak the stone fell earthward,
flake that a tempestu wind, as it driveth the dark cloud, rain
thickli down on the bounteou earth: so thick fell the missil from the
hand of achaian and trojan alik, and their helm rang harsh and
their bossi shield, be smitten with mighti stone. verili then
asio, son of hyrtako, groan and smote both hi thigh, and
indignantli he spake: "zeu, verili thou too dost greatli love a lie,
for i deem not that the achaian hero could withstand our might and
our hand invinc. but thei like wasp of nimbl bodi, or bee that
have made their dwell in a rug path, and leav not their hollow
hold, but abid and keep the hunter at bai for the sake of their littl
on, even so these men have no will to give ground from the gate,
though thei ar but two, er thei slai or be slain."

so spake he, nor with hi speech did he persuad the mind of zeu, for
hi will wa to give renown to hector.

but the other were fight about the other gate, and hard it were for
me like a god to tell all these thing, for everywher around the wall
of stone rose the fire divin; the argiv, for all their sorrow,
defend the ship of necess; and all the god were griev at
heart, as mani as were defend of the danaan in battl. and togeth
the lapitha wage war and strife.

there the son of peirithoo, mighti polypoit, smote damaso with the
spear, through the helmet with cheekpiec of bronz; nor did the bronz
helm stai the spear, but the point of bronz brake clean through the
bone, and all the brain within wa scatter, and the spear overcam him
in hi eager. thereaft he slew pylon and ormeno. and leonteu of
the stock of ar smote hippomacho, son of antimacho, with the spear,
strike him on the girdl. then again he drew hi sharp sword from the
sheath, and smote antiph first in close fight, rush on him
through the throng, that he fell on hi back on the ground; and
thereaft he brought down menon, and iameno, and orest on after the
other, to the bounteou earth.

while thei were strip from these the shine arm, the young men who
follow with polydama and hector, thei that were most in number and
bravest, and most were eager to break the wall and set the ship on
fire, these still stood doubt by the foss, for as thei were eager to
pass over a bird had appear to them, an eagl of lofti flight,
skirt the host on the left hand. in it talon it bore a blood-red
monstrou snake, aliv, and struggl still; yea, not yet had it
forgotten the joi of battl, but writh backward and smote the bird
that held it on the breast, besid the neck, and the bird cast it from
him down to the earth, in sore pain, and drop it in the midst of the
throng; then with a cry sped awai down the gust of the wind. and the
trojan shudder when thei saw the gleam snake ly in the midst of
them; an omen of aegi-bear zeu.

then verili polydama stood by brave hector, and spake: "hector, ever
dost thou rebuk me in the assembl, though i counsel wise; sinc it
by no mean beseemeth on of the peopl to speak contrari to thee, in
council or in war, but alwai to increas thy power; but now again will
i sai all that seemeth to me to be best. let us not advanc and fight
with the danaan for the ship. for even thu, methink, the end will
be, if inde thi bird hath come for the trojan when thei were eager
to cross the dyke, thi eagl of lofti flight, skirt the host on
the left hand, bear in hi talon a blood-red monstrou snake, yet
live; then straightwai left he hold of him, befor he reach hi own
nest, nor brought him home in the end to give to hi nestl. even so
shall we, though we burst with mighti forc the gate and wall of the
achaian, and the achaian give ground, even so we shall return in
disarrai from the ship by the wai we came; for mani of the trojan
shall we leav behind, whom the achaian will slai with the sword, in
defenc of the ship. even so would a soothsay interpret that in hi
heart had clear knowledg of omen, and whom the peopl obei."

then hector of the glanc helm lower on him and said: "polydama,
that thou speakest is no longer pleas to me; yea, thou knowest how to
conceiv anoth counsel better than thi. but if thou verili speakest
thu in earnest, then the god themselv have utterli destroi thy
wit; thou that bidst us forget the counsel of loud-thunder zeu,
that himself promis me, and confirm with a nod of hi head! but thou
bidst us be obedi to bird long of wing, whereto i give no heed, nor
take ani care thereof, whether thei fare to the right, to the dawn and
to the sun, or to the left, to mist and dark. nai, for us, let us
trust to the counsel of mighti zeu, who is king over all mortal and
immort. on omen is best, to fight for our own countri. and wherefor
dost thou fear war and battl? for if all the rest of us be slain by the
ship of the argiv, yet needst thou not fear to perish, for thy heart
is not warlik, nor endur in battl. but if thou dost hold aloof from
the fight, or winnest ani other with thy word to turn him from war,
straightwai by my spear shalt thou be smitten, and lose thy life."

so spake he, and led on, and thei follow with a wondrou din; and zeu
that joyeth in the thunder rous from the hill of ida, a blast of
wind, which bare the dust straight against the ship; and he made weak
the heart of the achaian, but gave renown to the trojan and to hector.
trust then in hi omen, and their might, thei strove to break the
great wall of the achaian. thei drag down the machicol
[project galleri] of the tower, and overthrew the battlement, and
heav up the project buttress, that the achaian set first in the
earth, to be the prop of the tower. these thei overthrew, and hope to
break the wall of the achaian. nor even now did the danaan give ground
from the path, but close up the battlement with shield of bull'
hide, and cast from them at the foemen as thei went below the wall.

now the two aiant went everywher on the tower, ever urg, and
arous the courag of the achaian. on thei would accost with honei
word, anoth with hard word thei would rebuk, whomsoev thei saw
utterli give ground from the fight: "o friend, whosoev is emin,
or whosoev is of middl station among the argiv, ay, or lower yet,
for in no wise ar all men equal in war, now is there work for all, and
thi yourselv well know. let none turn back to the ship, for that he
hath heard on threaten aloud; nai, get ye forward, and cheer anoth
on, if perchanc olympian zeu, the lord of lightn, will grant us to
drive back the assault, and push the foe to the citi."

so these twain shout in the front, and arous the battl of the
achaian. but as flake of snow fall thick on a winter dai, when zeu
the counsellor bath begun to snow, show forth these arrow of hi
to men, and he hath lull the wind, and he snoweth continu, till
he hath cover the crest of the high hill, and the uttermost
headland, and the grassi plain, and rich tillag of men; and the snow
is scatter over the haven and shore of the grei sea, and onli the
wave as it rolleth in keep off the snow, but all other thing ar
swath over, when the shower of zeu cometh heavili, so from both side
their stone flew thick, some toward the trojan, and some from the
trojan against the achaian, while both side were smitten, and over
all the wall the din aros.

yet never would the trojan, then, and renown hector have broken the
gate of the wall, and the long bar, if zeu the counsellor had not
rous hi son sarpedon against the argiv, like a lion against the
kine of crook horn. straightwai he held forth hi fair round shield,
of hammer bronz, that the bronz-smith had hammer out, and within
had stitch mani bull' hide with rivet of gold, all round the
circl, thi held he forth, and shook two spear; and sped on hi wai,
like a mountain-nurtur lion, that long lacketh meat, and hi brave
spirit urgeth him to make assail on the sheep, and come even against a
well-build homestead. nai, even if he find herdsmen therebi, guard
the sheep with hound and spear, yet hath he no mind to be driven
without an effort from the stead, but he either leapeth on a sheep,
and seizeth it, or himself is smitten in the foremost place with a dart
from a strong hand. so did hi heart then urg on the godlik sarpedon
to rush against the wall, and break through the battlement. and
instantli he spake to glauko, son of hippolocho: "glauko, wherefor
have we twain the chiefest honour,--seat of honour, and mess, and
full cup in lykia, and all men look on us as god? and wherefor hold
we a great demesn by the bank of xantho, a fair demesn of orchard-land,
and wheat-bear tilth? therefor now it behoveth us to take our
stand in the first rank of the lykian, and encount fieri battl,
that certain of the well-corslet lykian mai sai, 'verili our king
that rule lykia be no inglori men, thei that eat fat sheep, and drink
the choic wine honei-sweet: nai, but thei ar also of excel might,
for thei war in the foremost rank of the lykian.' ah, friend, if onc
escap from thi battl we were for ever to be ageless and immort,
neither would i fight myself in the foremost rank, nor would i send
thee into the war that giveth men renown, but now--for assuredli ten
thousand fate of death do everi wai beset us, and these no mortal mai
escap nor avoid--now let us go forward, whether we shall give glori to
other men, or other to us."

so spake he, and glauko turn not apart, nor disobei him, and thei
twain went straight forward, lead the great host of the lykian.

then menestheu son of peteo shudder when he beheld them, for against
hi tower thei went, bring with them ruin; and he look along the
tower of the achaian if perchanc he might see ani of the leader,
that would ward off destruct from hi comrad, and he beheld the two
aiant, insati of war, stand there, and teukro hard by, newli
come from hi hut; but he could not cry to be heard of them, so great
wa the din, and the nois went up unto heaven of smitten shield and
helm with hors-hair crest, and of the gate, for thei had all been
shut, and the trojan stood besid them, and strove by forc to break
them, and enter in. swiftli then to aia he sent the herald thoot:
"go, nobl thoot, and run, and call aia: or rather the twain, for
that will be far the best of all, sinc quickli here will there be
wrought utter ruin. for herebi press the leader of the lykian, who of
old ar fierc in strong battl. but if besid them too war and toil
aris, yet at least let the strong telamonian aia come alon and let
teukro the skill bowman follow with him."

so spake he, and the herald listen and disobei him not, but start
and ran by the wall of the mail-clad achaian, and came, and stood by
the aiant, and straightwai spake: "ye twain aiant, leader of the
mail-clad achaian, the dear son of peteo, fosterl of zeu, biddeth
you go thither, that, if it be but for a littl while, ye mai take your
part in battl: both of you he more desireth, for that will be far the
best of all, sinc quickli there will there be wrought utter ruin. for
therebi press the leader of the lykian, who of old ar fierc in
strong battl. but if besid you too war and toil aris, yet at least
let the strong telamonian aia come alon, and let teukro the skill
bowman follow with him."

so spake he, nor did the strong telamonian aia disobei, but instantli
spake wing word to the son of oileu: "aia, do ye twain stand here,
thyself and strong lykomed, and urg the danaan to war with all their
might; but i go thither, to take my part in battl, and quickli will i
come again, when i have well aid them."

so spake telamonian aia and depart, and teukro went with him, hi
brother by the same father, and with them pandion bare the bend bow
of teukro.

now when thei came to the tower of great-heart menestheu, pass
within the wall,--and to men sore press thei came,--the foe were
climb upon the battlement, like a dark whirlwind, even the strong
leader and counsellor of the lykian; and thei hurl togeth into
the war and the battl-cry aros. now first did aia telamon's son slai
a man, epikl great of heart, the comrad of sarpedon. with a jag
stone he smote him, a great stone that lai uppermost within the wall, by
the battlement. not lightli could a man hold it in both hand, howev
strong in hi youth, of such mortal as now ar, but aia lift it, and
cast it from abov, and shatter the helm of fourfold crest, and broke
the bone of the head, and he fell like a diver from the lofti tower,
and hi life left hi bone. and teukro smote glauko, the strong son
of hippolocho, as he came on, with an arrow from the lofti wall; even
where he saw hi shoulder bare he smote him, and made him ceas from
delight in battl. back from the wall he leapt secretli, lest ani of the
achaian should see him smitten, and speak boastfulli. but sorrow came
on sarpedon when glauko depart, so soon as he wa awar thereof, but
he forgot not the joi of battl. he aim at alkmaon, son of thestor,
with the spear, and smote him, and drew out the spear. and alkmaon
follow the spear fell prone, and hi bronz-dight arm rang round
him. then sarpedon seiz with strong hand the battlement, and drag,
and it all gave wai togeth, while abov the wall wa strip bare,
and made a path for mani.

then aia and teukro did encount him: teukro smote him with an
arrow, on the bright baldric of hi cover shield, about the breast,
but zeu ward off the fate from hi son, that he should not be
overcom besid the ship' stern. then aia leap on and smote hi
shield, nor did the spear pass clean through, yet shook he sarpedon in
hi eager. he gave ground a littl wai from the battlement, yet
retreat not wholli, sinc hi heart hope to win renown. then he
turn and cri to the godlik lykian: "o lykian, wherefor thu ar
ye slack in impetu valour. hard it is for me, stalwart as i am, alon
to break through, and make a path to the ship, nai, follow hard after
me, for the more men, the better work."

so spake he, and thei, dread the rebuk of their king, press on the
harder around the counsellor and king. and the argiv on the other side
made strong their battalion within the wall, and mighti toil began for
them. for neither could the strong lykian burst through the wall of
the danaan, and make a wai to the ship, nor could the warlik danaan
drive back the lykian from the wall, when onc thei had drawn near
thereto. but as two men contend about the march of their land, with
measur rod in their hand, in a common field, when in narrow space
thei strive for equal share, even so the battlement divid them, and
over those thei smote the round shield of ox hide about the breast of
either side, and the flutter buckler. and mani were wound in the
flesh with the ruthless bronz, whensoev the back of ani of the
warrior wa laid bare as he turn, ay, and mani clean through the veri
shield. yea, everywher the tower and battlement swam with the blood
of men shed on either side, by trojan and achaian. but even so thei
could not put the argiv to rout, but thei held their ground, as an
honest woman that laboureth with her hand hold the balanc, and rais
the weight and the wool togeth, balanc them, that she mai win scant
wage for her children; so evenli wa strain their war and battl,
till the moment when zeu gave the greater renown to hector, son of
priam, who wa the first to leap within the wall of the achaian. in a
pierc voic he cri aloud to the trojan: "rise, ye hors-tame
trojan, break the wall of the argiv, and cast among the ship fierc
blaze fire."

so spake he, spur them on, and thei all heard him with their ear,
and in on mass rush straight against the wall, and with sharp spear
in their hand climb upon the machicol of the tower. and
hector seiz and carri a stone that lai in front of the gate, thick
in the hinder part, but sharp at point: a stone that not the two best
men of the peopl, such as mortal now ar, could lightli lift from the
ground on to a wain, but easili he wield it alon, for the son of
crook-counsel krono made it light for him. and as when a shepherd
lightli beareth the fleec of a ram, take it in on hand, and littl
doth it burden him, so hector lift the stone, and bare it straight
against the door that close guard the stubborn-set portal, doubl
gate and tall, and two cross bar held them within, and on bolt
fasten them. and he came, and stood hard by, and firmli plant
himself, and smote them in the midst, set hi leg well apart, that
hi cast might lack no strength. and he brake both the hing, and the
stone fell within by reason of it weight, and the gate rang loud
around, and the bar held not, and the door burst thi wai and that
beneath the rush of the stone. then gloriou hector leap in, with face
like the sudden night, shine in wondrou mail that wa clad about hi
bodi, and with two spear in hi hand. no man that met him could have
held him back when onc he leap within the gate: none but the god,
and hi ey shone with fire. turn toward the throng he cri to the
trojan to overleap the wall, and thei obei hi summon, and speedili
some overleap the wall, and some pour into the fair-wrought
gatewai, and the danaan fled in fear among the hollow ship, and a
ceaseless clamour aros.



book xiii.

    poseidon stirreth up the achaian to defend the ship.
    the valour of idomeneu.

now zeu, after that he had brought the trojan and hector to the ship,
left them to their toil and endless labour there, but otherwher again
he turn hi shine ey, and look upon the land of the thracian
horsebreed, and the mysian, fierc fighter hand to hand, and the
proud hippemolgoi that drink mare's milk, and the abioi, the most
righteou of men. to troi no more at all he turn hi shine ey, for
he deem in hi heart that not on of the immort would draw near, to
help either trojan or danaan.

but the mighti earth-shaker held no blind watch, who sat and marvel on
the war and strife, high on the topmost crest of wood samothrac, for
thenc all ida wa plain to see; and plain to see were the citi of
priam, and the ship of the achaian. thither did he go from the sea and
sate him down, and he had piti on the achaian, that thei were subdu
to the trojan, and strong wa hi anger against zeu.

then forthwith he went down from the rug hill, fare with swift
step, and the high hill trembl, and the woodland, beneath the
immort footstep of poseidon as he move. three stride he made, and
with the fourth he reach hi goal, even aiga, and there wa hi
famou palac in the deep of the mere, hi glister golden mansion
build, imperish for ever. thither went he, and let har to the
car hi bronz-hoov hors, swift of flight, cloth with their golden
mane. he girt hi own golden arrai about hi bodi, and seiz the
well-wrought lash of gold, and mount hi chariot, and forth he drove
across the wave. and the sea beast frolick beneath him, on all
side out of the deep, for well thei knew their lord, and with glad
the sea stood asund, and swiftli thei sped, and the axl of bronz wa
not wet beneath, and the bound steed bare him on to the ship
of the achaian.

now there is a spaciou cave in the depth of the deep mere, between
tenedo and rug imbro; there did poseidon, the shaker of the earth,
stai hi hors, and loos them out of the chariot, and cast befor
them ambrosi food to graze withal, and golden tether he bound about
their hoov, tether neither to be broken nor loos, that there the
hors might continu await their lord's return. and he went to the
host of the achaian.

now the trojan like flame or storm-wind were follow in close arrai,
with fierc intent, after hector, son of priam. with shout and cri
thei came, and thought to take the ship of the achaian, and to slai
therebi all the bravest of the host. but poseidon, that girdleth the
world, the shaker of the earth, wa urg on the argiv, and forth he
came from the deep salt sea, in form and untir voic like unto
kalcha. first he spake to the two aiant, that themselv were eager
for battl: "ye aiant twain, ye shall save the peopl of the achaian,
if ye ar mind of your might, and reckless of chill fear. for verili
i do not otherwher dread the invinc hand of the trojan, that have
climb the great wall in their multitud, nai, the well-greav
achaian will hold them all at bai; but herebi verili do i greatli dread
lest some evil befal us, even here where that furiou on is lead
like a flame of fire, hector, who boast him to be son of mighti zeu.
nai, but here mai some god put it into the heart of you twain, to stand
sturdili yourselv, and urg other to do the like; therebi might ye
drive him from the fleet-fare ship, despit hi eager, yea, even
if the olympian himself is rous him to war."

therewith the shaker of the world, the girdler of the earth, struck the
twain with hi staff, and fill them with strong courag, and their
limb he made light, and their feet, and their hand withal. then, even
as a swift-wing hawk speed forth to fly, pois high abov a tall
sheer rock, and swoop to chase some other bird across the plain, even
so poseidon sped from them, the shaker of the world. and of the twain
oileu' son, the swift-foot aia, wa the first to know the god, and
instantli he spake to aia, son of telamon: "aia, sinc it is on of
the god who hold olympu, that in the semblanc of a seer command us
now to fight besid the ship-not kalcha is he, the prophet and
sooth-sayer, for easili i knew the token of hi feet and knee as he
turn awai, and the god ar easi to discern--lo, then mine own heart
within my breast is more eagerli set on war and battl, and my feet
beneath and my hand abov ar lust for the fight."

then aia, son of telamon, answer him sai: "even so, too, my hand
invinc now rage about the spear-shaft, and wrath ha risen within
me, and both my feet ar swift beneath me; yea, i am keen to meet, even
in singl fight, the ceaseless rage of hector son of priam."

so thei spake to each other, rejoic in the delight of battl, which
the god put in their heart. then the girdler of the earth stir up the
achaian that were in the rear and were renew their strength besid
the swift ship. their limb were loosen by their grievou toil, yea,
and their soul fill with sorrow at the sight of the trojan, that had
climb over the great wall in their multitud. and thei look on them,
and shed tear beneath their brow, think that never would thei
escap destruct. but the shaker of the earth right easili came among
them, and urg on the strong battalion of warrior. teukro first he
came and summon, and leito, and the hero peneleo, and thoa, and
deipyro, and merion, and antilocho, lord of the war-cry, all these
he spur on with wing word: "shame on you, argiv, shame, ye
stripl, in your battl had i trust for the salvat of our ship.
but if you ar to withdraw from grievou war, now inde the dai doth
shine that shall see us conquer by the trojan. out on it, for verili
a great marvel is thi that mine ey behold, a terribl thing that
methought should never come to pass, the trojan advanc against our
ship! of yore thei were like fleet hind, that in the wild wood ar
the prei of jackal, and pard, and wolv, and wander helpless,
strengthless, empti of the joi of battl. even so the trojan of old
care never to wait and face the wrath and the hand of the achaian,
not for a moment. but now thei ar fight far from the town, by the
hollow ship, all through the base of our leader and the remiss
of the peopl, who, be at strife with the chief, have no heart to
defend the swift-fare ship, nai, therebi thei ar slain. but if
inde and in truth the hero agamemnon, the wide-rule son of atreu,
is the veri caus of all, for that he did dishonour the swift-foot son
of peleu, not even so mai we refrain in ani wise from war. nai, let us
right our fault with speed, for easili right ar the heart of the
brave. no longer do ye well to refrain from impetu might, all ye that
ar the best men of the host. i myself would not quarrel with on that,
be a weakl, abstain from war, but with you i am heartili wroth.
ah, friend, soon shall ye make the mischief more through thi
remiss,--but let each man conceiv shame in hi heart, and
indign, for verili great is the strife that hath arisen. lo, the
mighti hector of the loud war-cry is fight at the ship, and the
gate and the long bar he hath burst in sunder."

on thi wise did the earth-enfold call to and spur on the achaian.
and straightwai thei made a stand around the two aiant, strong band
that ar himself could not enter and make light of, nor athen that
marshal the host. yea, thei were the chosen best that abod the trojan
and goodli hector, and spear on spear made close-set fenc, and shield
on serri shield, buckler press on buckler, and helm on helm, and man
on man. the hors-hair crest on the bright helmet-ridg touch each
other as thei nod, so close thei stood each by other, and spear
brandish in bold hand were interlac; and their heart were
steadfast and lust for battl.

then the trojan drave forward in close arrai, and hector led them,
press straight onward, like a roll rock from a cliff, that the
winter-swollen water thrusteth from the crest of a hill, have broken
the foundat of the stubborn rock with it wondrou flood; leap
aloft it fli, and the wood echo under it, and unstai it run it
cours, till it reach the level plain, and then it roll no more for
all it eager,--even so hector for a while threaten lightli to
win to the sea through the hut and the ship of the achaian, slai
as he came, but when he encount the serri battalion, he wa
stai when he drew near against them. but thei of the other part, the
son of the achaian, thrust with their sword and doubl-point
spear, and drave him forth from them, that he gave ground and reel
backward. then he cri with a pierc voic, call on the trojan:
"trojan, and lykian, and close-fight dardanian, hold your ground,
for the achaian will not long ward me off, nai, though thei have
arrai themselv in fashion like a tower. rather, methink, thei will
flee back befor the spear, if verili the chief of god ha set me on,
the loud-thunder lord of hera."

therewith he spur on the heart and spirit of each man; and deiphobo,
the son of priam, strode among them with high thought, and held in
front of him the circl of hi shield, and lightli he step with hi
feet, advanc beneath the cover of hi shield. then merion aim at
him with a shine spear, and struck, and miss not, but smote the
circl of the bull-hide shield, yet no whit did he pierc it; nai,
well er that might be, the long spear-shaft snap in the socket. now
deiphobo wa hold off from him the bull-hide shield, and hi heart
fear the lanc of wise merion, but that hero shrunk back among the
throng of hi comrad, greatli in wrath both for the loss of victori,
and of hi spear, that he had shiver. so he set forth to go to the
hut and the ship of the achaian, to bring a long spear, that he had
left in hi hut.

meanwhil the other were fight on, and there aros an
inextinguish cry. first teukro, son of telamon, slew a man, the
spearman imbrio, the son of mentor rich in hors. in pedaion he dwelt,
befor the come of the son of the achaian, and he had for wife a
daughter of priam, born out of wedlock, medesikast; but when the curv
ship of the danaan came, he return again to ilio, and wa
pre-emin among the trojan, and dwelt with priam, who honour him
like hi own children. him the son of telemon pierc below the ear with
hi long lanc, and pluck back the spear. then he fell like an ash
that on the crest of a far-seen hill is smitten with the ax of bronz,
and bring it delic foliag to the ground; even so he fell, and
round him rang hi armour bedight with bronz. then teukro rush
forth, most eager to strip hi armour, and hector cast at him as he came
with hi shine spear. but teukro, steadili regard him, avoid by
a littl the spear of bronz; so hector struck amphimacho, son of
kteato, son of aktor, in the breast with the spear, as he wa return
to the battl. with a crash he fell, and hi armour rang upon him.

then hector sped forth to tear from the head of great-heart
amphimacho the helmet close fit to hi templ, but aia aim at
hector as he came, with a shine spear, yet in no wise touch hi
bodi, for he wa all clad in dread armour of bronz; but he smote the
boss of hi shield, and drave him back by main forc, and he gave place
from behind the two dead men, and the achaian drew them out of the
battl. so stichio and goodli menestheu, leader of the athenian,
convei amphimacho back among the host of the achaian, but imbrio
the two aiant carri, with heart full of impetu might. and as
when two lion have snatch awai a goat from sharp-tooth hound, and
carri it through the deep thicket, hold the bodi on high abov the
ground in their jaw, so the two warrior aiant held imbrio aloft and
spoil hi arm. then the son of oileu cut hi head from hi delic
neck, in wrath for the sake of amphimacho, and sent it roll like a
ball through the throng, and it drop in the dust befor the feet of
hector.

then verili wa poseidon wroth at heart, when hi son's son fell in the
terribl frai. [kteato, father of amphimacho, wa poseidon's son.] so
he set forth to go by the hut and the ship of the achaian, to spur on
the danaan, and sorrow he wa contriv for the trojan. then
idomeneu, spearman renown, met him on hi wai from hi comrad that
had but newli return to him out of the battl, wound on the knee
with the sharp bronz. him hi comrad carri forth, and idomeneu
gave charg to the leech, and so went on to hi hut, for he still wa
eager to face the war. then the mighti shaker of the earth address
him, in the voic of thoa, son of andraimon, that rule over the
aitolian in all pleuron, and mountain kalydon, and wa honour like
a god by the peopl: "idomeneu, thou counsellor of the cretan, sai,
whither have thy threat fare, wherewith the son of the achaian
threaten the trojan?"

then idomeneu, leader of the cretan, answer him again: "o thao, now
is there no man to blame, that i wot of, for we all ar skill in war.
neither is there ani man that spiritless fear hold aloof, nor ani that
give place to cowardic, and shun the cruel war, nai, but even thu,
methink, must it have seem good to almighti kronion, even that the
achaian should perish nameless here, far awai from argo. but thoa,
see that of old thou wert staunch, and dost spur on some other man,
wheresoev thou mayst see ani give ground, therefor slacken not now,
but call aloud to everi warrior."

then poseidon, the shaker of the earth, answer him again: "idomeneu,
never mai that man go forth out of troi-land, but here mai he be the
sport of dog, who thi dai wilfulli is slack in battl. nai, come, take
thy weapon and awai: herein we must plai the man togeth, if ani avail
there mai be, though we ar no more than two. ay, and veri coward get
courag from compani, but we twain know well how to battl even with the
brave."

therewith the god went back again into the strife of men, but idomeneu,
so soon as he came to hi well-build hut, did on hi fair armour about
hi bodi, and grasp two spear, and set forth like the lightn that
kronion seiz in hi hand and brandish from radiant olympu, show
forth a sign to mortal men, and far seen ar the flame thereof. even so
shone the bronz about the breast of idomeneu as he ran, and merion,
hi good squir, met him, while he wa still near hi hut,--he wa go
to bring hi spear of bronz,--and mighti idomeneu spake to him:
"merion son of molo, fleet of foot, dearest of my compani, wherefor
hast thou come hither and left the war and strife? art thou wound at
all, and vex by a dart's point, or dost thou come with a messag for
me concern aught? verili i myself have no desir to sit in the hut,
but to fight."

then wise merion answer him again, sai: "i have come to fetch a
spear, if perchanc thou hast on left in the hut, for that which
befor i carri i have shiver in cast at the shield of proud
deiphobo."

then idomeneu, leader of the cretan, answer him again: "spear, if
thou wilt, thou shalt find, on, ay, and twenti, stand in the hut,
against the shine side wall, spear of the trojan whereof i have
spoil their slain. yea, it is not my mood to stand and fight with
foemen from afar, wherefor i have spear, and bossi shield, and helm,
and corslet of splendid sheen."

then wise merion answer him again: "yea, and in mine own hut and my
black ship ar mani spoil of the trojan, but not readi to my hand.
nai, for methink that neither am i forget of valour; but stand forth
among the foremost to face the gloriou war, whensoev ariseth the
strife of battl. ani other, methink, of the mail-clad achaian should
sooner forget my prowess, but thou art he that knoweth it."

then idomeneu, leader of the cretan, answer him again: "i know what
a man of valour thou art, wherefor shouldst thou tell me thereof? nai,
if now besid the ship all the best of us were be chosen for an
ambush--wherein the valour of men is best discern; there the coward,
and the brave man most plainli declar themselv: for the colour of the
coward chang often, and hi spirit cannot abid firm within him, but
now he kneel on on knee, now on the other, and rest on either foot,
and hi heart beat noisili in hi breast, as he think of doom, and hi
teeth chatter loudli. but the colour of the brave man doe not chang,
nor is he greatli afraid, from the moment that he enter the ambush of
hero, but hi prayer is to mingl instantli in woeful war. were we
be chosen for such an ambush, i sai, not even then would ani man
reckon lightli of thy courag and thy strength. nai, and even if thou
wert stricken in battl from afar, or smitten in close fight, the dart
would not strike thee in the hinder part of the neck, nor in the back,
but would encount thy breast or belli, as thou dost press on, toward
the gather of the foremost fighter. but come, no more let us talk
thu, like children, loiter here, lest ani man be vehement wroth,
but go thou to the hut, and bring the strong spear."

thu he spake, and merion, the peer of swift ar, quickli bare the
spear of bronz from the hut, and went after idomeneu, with high
thought of battl. and even as ar, the bane of men, goe forth into
the war, and with him follow hi dear son panic, stark and fearless,
that terrifi even the hardi warrior; and these twain leav thrace, and
har them for fight with the ephyri, or the great-heart phlegyan,
yet hearken not to both peopl, but give honour to on onli; like these
god did merion and idomeneu, leader of men, set forth into the
fight, har in gleam bronz. and merion spake first to
idomeneu sai: "child of deukalion, whither art thou eager to enter
into the throng: on the right of all the host, or in the centr, or on
the left? ay, and no other where, methink, ar the flow-hair
achaian so like to fail in fight."

then idomeneu, the leader of the cretan, answer him again: "in the
centr of the ship there ar other to bear the brunt, the two aiant,
and teukro, the best bowman of the achaian, ay, and a good man in
close fight; these will give hector priam's son toil enough, howsoev
keen he be for battl; yea, though he be exceed stalwart. hard will
he find it, with all hi lust for war, to overcom their strength and
their hand invinc, and to fire the ship, unless kronion himself
send down on the swift ship a burn brand. but not to a man would he
yield, the great telamonian aia, to a man that is mortal and eateth
demet's grain, and mai be chosen with the sword of bronz, and with
hurl of great stone. nai, not even to achil the breaker of the
rank of men would he give wai, not in close fight; but for speed of
foot none mai in ani wise strive with achil. but guid us twain, as
thou sayest, to the left hand of the host, that speedili we mai learn
whether we ar to win glori from other, or other men from us."

so he spake, and merion, the peer of swift ar, led the wai, till
thei came to the host, in that place whither he bade him go.

and when the trojan saw idomeneu, strong as flame, and hi squir with
him, and their gloriou armour, thei all shout and made for him
through the press. then their mellai began, by the stern of the ship.
and as the gust speed on, when shrill wind blow, on a dai when dust
li thickest on the road, and the wind rais togeth a great cloud
of dust, even so their battl clash togeth, and all were fain of
heart to slai each other in the press with the keen bronz. and the
battl, the bane of men, bristl with the long spear, the pierc
spear thei grasp, and the glitter of bronz from gleam helmet
dazzl the ey, and the sheen of new-burnish corslet, and shine
shield, as the men throng all togeth. right hardi of heart would he
have been that joi and sorrow not at the sight of thi labour of
battl.

thu the two mighti son of krono, with contend will, were
contriv sorrow and anguish for the hero. zeu desir victori for
the trojan and hector, give glori to swift-foot achil; yet he
did not wish the achaian host to perish utterli befor ilio, but onli
to give renown to theti and her strong-heart son. but poseidon went
among the argiv and stir them to war, steal secretli forth from
the grei salt sea: for he wa sore vex that thei were overcom by
the trojan, and wa greatli in wrath against zeu. verili both were of
the same lineag and the same place of birth, but zeu wa the elder and
the wiser. therefor also poseidon avoid to give open aid, but
secretli ever he spur them on, throughout the host, in the like
of a man. these twain had strain the end of the cord of strong
strife and equal war, and had stretch them over both trojan and
achaian, a knot that none might break nor undo, for the loosen of
the knee of mani.

even then idomeneu, though hi hair wa fleck with grei, call on
the danaan, and leap among the trojan, rous their terror. for he
slew othryoneu of kabeso, a sojourn there, who but late had
follow after the rumour of war, and ask in marriag the fairest of
the daughter of priam, kassandra, without gift of woo, but with
promis of mighti deed, name that he would drive perforc out of
troi-land the son of the achaian. to him the old man priam had
promis and appoint that he would give her, so he fought trust in
hi promis. and idomeneu aim at him with a bright spear, and cast
and smote him as he came proudli stride on, and the corslet of bronz
that he wore avail not, but the lanc struck in the midst of hi
belli. and he fell with a crash, and idomeneu boast over him, and
lift up hi voic, sai: "othryoneu, verili i prais thee abov all
mortal men, if inde thou shalt accomplish all that thou hast promis
priam, son of dardano, that promis thee again hi own daughter. yea,
and we likewis would promis as much to thee, and fulfil it, and would
give thee the fairest daughter of the son of atreu, and bring her from
argo, and wed her to thee, if onli thou wilt aid us to take the
fair-set citadel of ilio. nai, follow us that we mai make a coven of
marriag by the seafar ship, for we ar no hard exact of gift of
woo."

therewith the hero idomeneu drag him by the foot across the fierc
mellai. but asio came to hi aid, on foot befor hi hors that the
chariot guid so that still their breath touch the shoulder of
asio. and the desir of hi heart wa to cast at idomeneu, who wa
beforehand with him, and smote him with the spear in the throat, below
the chin, and drove the point straight through. and he fell as an oak
fall, or a poplar, or tall pine tree, that craftsmen have fell on the
hill with new whet ax, to be a ship's timber; even so he lai
stretch out befor the hors and the chariot, groan, and clutch
the bloodi dust. and the chariot wa amaz, and kept not hi wit,
as of old, and dare not turn hi hors and avoid out of the hand of
foemen; and antilocho the steadfast in war smote him, and pierc the
middl of hi bodi with a spear. noth avail the corslet of bronz
he wa wont to wear, but he plant the spear fast in the midst of hi
belli. therewith he fell gasp from the well-wrought chariot, and
antilocho, the son of great-heart nestor, drave the hors out from
the trojan, among the well-greav achaian. then deiphobo, in sorrow
for asio, drew veri nigh idomeneu, and cast at him with hi shine
spear. but idomeneu steadili watch him, avoid the spear of bronz,
be hidden beneath the circl of hi shield, the shield cover about
with ox-hide and gleam bronz, that he allow bore, fit with two
arm-rod: under thi he crouch togeth, and the spear of bronz flew
over. and hi shield rang sharpli, as the spear graze thereon. yet it
flew not vainli from the heavi hand of deiphobo, but smote hypsenor,
son of hippaso, the shepherd of the host, in the liver, beneath the
midriff, and instantli unstrung hi knee. and deiphobo boast over
him terribl, cry aloud: "ah, verili, not unaveng li asio, nai,
methink, that even on hi road to hade, strong warden of the gate, he
will rejoic at heart, sinc, lo, i have sent him escort for the wai!"

so spake he, but grief came on the argiv by reason of hi boast, and
stir abov all the soul of the wise-heart antilocho, yet,
despit hi sorrow, he wa not heedless of hi dear comrad, but ran and
stood over him, and cover him with hi buckler. then two trusti
companion, mekisteu, son of echio, and goodli alastor, stoop down
and lift him, and with heavi groan bare him to the hollow ship.

and idomeneu relax not hi mighti forc, but ever wa strive,
either to cover some on of the trojan with black night, or himself to
fall in ward off death from the achaian. there the dear son of
aisyet, fosterl of zeu, even the hero alkathoo, wa slain, who
wa son-in-law of anchis, and had marri the eldest of hi daughter,
hippodameia, whom her father and her ladi mother dearli love in the
hall, for she excel all the maiden of her ag in beauti, and skill,
and in wisdom, wherefor the best man in wide troi took her to wife.
thi alkathoo did poseidon subdu to idomeneu, throw a spell over
hi shine ey, and snare hi gloriou limb; so that he might
neither flee backward, nor avoid the stroke, but stood steadi as a
pillar, or a tree with lofti crown of leav, when the hero idomeneu
smote him in the midst of the breast with the spear, and rent the coat
of bronz about him, that aforetim ward death from hi bodi, but now
rang harsh as it wa rent by the spear. and he fell with a crash, and
the lanc fix in hi heart, that, still beat, shook the butt-end of
the spear. then at length mighti ar spent it furi there; but
idomeneu boast terribl, and cri aloud: "deiphobo, ar we to deem
it fair acquitt that we have slain three men for on, sinc thou
boastest thu? nai, sir, but stand thou up also thyself against me, that
thou mayst know what manner of son of zeu am i that have come hither!
for zeu first begat mino, the warden of crete, and mino got him a
son, the nobl deukalion, and deukalion begat me, a princ over mani men
in wide crete, and now have the ship brought me hither, a bane to thee
and thy father, and all the trojan."

thu he spake, but the thought of deiphobo were divid, whether
he should retreat, and call to hi aid some on of the great-heart
trojan, or should try the adventur alon. and on thi wise to hi mind
it seem the better, to go after aineia, whom he found stand the
last in the press, for aineia wa ever wroth against goodli priam, for
that priam gave him no honour, despit hi valour among men. so
deiphobo stood by him, and spake wing word to him: "aineia, thou
counsellor of the trojan, now verili there is great need that thou
shouldst succour thy sister's husband, if ani care for kin doth touch
thee. nai follow, let us succour alkathoo, thy sister's husband, who of
old did cherish thee in hi hall, while thou wert but a littl on, and
now, lo, spear-fame idomeneu hath strip him of hi arm!"

so he spake, and rous the spirit in the breast of aineia, who went to
seek idomeneu, with high thought of war. but fear took not hold upon
idomeneu, as though he had been some tender boi, but he stood at bai,
like a boar on the hill that trusteth to hi strength, and abid the
great assail throng of men in a lone place, and he bristl up hi
back, and hi ey shine with fire, while he whet hi tusk, and is
right eager to keep at bai both men and hound. even so stood
spear-fame idomeneu at bai against aineia, that came to the rescu,
and gave ground no whit, but call on hi comrad, glanc to
askalapho, and aphareu, and deipyro, and merion, and antilocho,
all master of the war-cry; them he spur up to battl, and spake
wing word: "hither, friend, and rescu me, all alon as i am, and
terribl i dread the onslaught of swift-foot aineia, that is
assail me; for he is right strong to destroi men in battl, and he
hath the flower of youth, the greatest avail that mai be. yea, if he and
i were of like ag, and in thi spirit whereof now we ar, speedili
should he or i achiev high victori."

so he spake, and thei all, be of on spirit in their heart, stood
hard by each other, with buckler laid on shoulder. but aineia, on the
other side, cri to hi comrad, glanc to deiphobo, and pari, and
nobl agenor, that with him were leader of the trojan; and then the
host follow them, as sheep follow their leader to the water from the
pastur, and the shepherd is glad at heart; even so the heart of aineia
wa glad in hi breast, when he saw the host of the peopl follow to
aid him.

then thei rush in close fight around alkathoo with their long spear,
and round their breast the bronz rang terribl, as thei aim at each
other in the press, while two men of war beyond the rest, aineia and
idomeneu, the peer of ar, were each strive to hew the flesh of the
other with the pitiless bronz. now aineia first cast at idomeneu, who
steadili watch him avoid the spear of bronz, and the point of
aineia went quiver in the earth, sinc vainli it had flown from hi
stalwart hand. but idomeneu smote oinomao in the midst of the belli,
and brake the plate of hi corslet, and the bronz let forth the bowel
through the corslet, and he fell in the dust and clutch the earth in
hi palm. and idomeneu drew forth the far-shadow spear from the
dead, but could not avail to strip the rest of the fair armour from hi
shoulder, for the dart press hard on him. nai, and hi feet no
longer serv him firmli in a charg, nor could he rush after hi own
spear, nor avoid the foe. wherefor in close fight he still held off the
pitiless dai of destini, but in retreat: hi feet no longer bore him
swiftli from the battl. and as he wa slowli depart, deiphobo aim
at him with hi shine spear, for verili he ever cherish a steadfast
hatr against idomeneu. but thi time, too, he miss him, and smote
askalapbo, the son of enyalio, with hi dart, and the strong spear
pass through hi shoulder, and he fell in the dust, and clutch the
earth in hi outstretch hand. but loud-voic aw ar wa not yet
awar at all that hi son had fallen in strong battl, but he wa
reclin on the peak of olympu, beneath the golden cloud, be held
there by the design of zeu, where also were the other deathless god,
restrain from the war.

now the peopl rush in close fight around askalapho, and deiphobo
tore from askalapho hi shine helm, but merion, the peer of swift
ar, leap forward and smote the arm of deiphobo with hi spear, and
from hi hand the vizor casqu fell clang to the ground. and
merion sprang forth instantli, like a vultur, and drew the strong
spear from the shoulder of deiphobo, and fell back among the throng of
hi comrad. but the own brother of deiphobo, polit, stretch hi
hand round hi waist, and led him forth from the evil din of war, even
till he came to the swift hors, that wait for him behind the battl
and the fight, with their chariot, and well-dight chariot. these bore
him heavili groan to the citi, worn with hi hurt, and the blood ran
down from hi newli wound arm.

but the rest still were fight, and the war-cry rose unquench. there
aineia rush on aphareu, son of kaletor, and struck hi throat, that
chanc to be turn to him, with the keen spear, and hi head drop
down and hi shield and helm fell with him, and death that slai the
spirit overwhelm him. and antilocho watch thoon as he turn the
other wai, and leap on him, and wound him, sever all the vein
that run up the back till it reach the neck; thi he sever clean,
and thoon fell on hi back in the dust, stretch out both hi hand to
hi comrad dear. then antilocho rush on, and strip the armour
from hi shoulder, glanc around while the trojan gather from here
and there, and smote hi wide shine shield, yet did not avail to
graze, behind the shield, the delic flesh of antilocho with the
pitiless bronz. for verili poseidon, the shaker of the earth, did guard
on everi side the son of nestor, even in the midst of the javelin. and
never did antilocho get free of the foe, but turn him about among
them, nor ever wa hi spear at rest, but alwai brandish and shaken,
and the aim of hi heart wa to smite a foeman from afar, or to set on
him at close quarter. but as he wa aim through the crowd, he
escap not the ken of adama, son of asio, who smote the midst of hi
shield with the sharp bronz, set on nigh at hand; but poseidon of
the dark lock made hi shaft of no avail, grudg him the life of
antilocho. and part of the spear abod there, like a burn stake, in
the shield of antilocho, and half lai on the earth, and back retreat
adama to the rank of hi comrad, avoid fate. but merion
follow after him as he depart, smote him with a spear between the
privi part and the navel, where a wound is most bane to wretch
mortal. even there he fix the spear in him and he fell, and writh
about the spear, even as a bull that herdsmen on the hill drag along
perforc when thei have bound him with with, so he when he wa smitten
writh for a moment, not for long, till the hero merion came near,
and drew the spear out of hi bodi. and dark cover hi ey.

and heleno in close fight smote deipyro on the templ, with a great
thracian sword, and tore awai the helm, and the helm, be dislodg,
fell on the ground, and on of the achaian in the fight pick it up as
it roll between hi feet. but dark night cover the ey of deipyro.

then grief took hold of the son of atreu, menelao of the loud war-cry,
and he went with a threat against the warrior heleno, the princ,
shake hi sharp spear, while the other drew the centr-piec of hi
bow. and both at onc were make readi to let fly, on with hi sharp
spear, the other with the arrow from the string. then the son of priam
smote menelao on the breast with hi arrow, on the plate of the
corslet, and off flew the bitter arrow. even as from a broad shovel in a
great thresh floor, fly the black-skin bean and puls, befor the
whistl wind, and the stress of the winnow's shovel, even so from
the corslet of the renown menelao flew glanc far asid the bitter
arrow. but the son of atreu, menelao of the loud war-cry, smote the
hand of heleno wherein he held the polish bow, and into the bow,
clean through the hand, wa driven the spear of bronz. back he withdrew
to the rank of hi comrad, avoid fate, with hi hand hang down
at hi side, for the ashen spear drag after him. and the
great-heart agenor drew the spear from hi hand, and himself bound up
the hand with a band of twist sheep's-wool, a sling that a squir
carri for him, the shepherd of the host.

then peisandro made straight for renown menelao, but an evil fate
wa lead him to the end of death; by thee, menelao, to be overcom
in the dread strife of battl. now when the twain had come nigh in onset
upon each other, the son of atreu miss, and hi spear wa turn
asid, but peisandro smote the shield of renown menelao, yet avail
not to drive the bronz clean through, for the wide shield caught it,
and the spear brake in the socket, yet peisandro rejoic in hi heart,
and hope for the victori. but the son of atreu drew hi silver-stud
sword, and leap upon peisandro. and peisandro, under hi shield,
clutch hi goodli ax of fine bronz, with long and polish haft of
oliv-wood, and the twain set upon each other. then peisandro smote the
crest of the helmet shade with hors hair, close below the veri plume,
but menelao struck the other, as he came forward, on the brow, abov
the base of the nose, and the bone crack, and the ey, all bloodi,
fell at hi feet in the dust. then he bow and fell, and menelao set
hi foot on hi breast, and strip him of hi arm, and triumph,
sai: "even thu then sure, ye will leav the ship of the danaan
of the swift steed, ye trojan overween, insati of the dread din
of war. yea, and ye shall not lack all other reproof and shame,
wherewith ye made me asham, ye hound of evil, have no fear in your
heart of the strong wrath of loud-thunder zeu, the god of guest and
host, who on dai will destroi your steep citadel. o ye that wantonli
carri awai my wed wife and mani of my possess, when ye were
entertain by her, now again ye ar fain to throw ruinou fire on the
seafar ship, and to slai the achaian hero. nai, but ye will yet
refrain you from battl, for as eager as ye be. o zeu, verili thei sai
that thou dost excel in wisdom all other, both god and men, and all
these thing ar from thee. how wondrous art thou favour men of
violenc, even the trojan, whose might is ever iniquit, nor can thei
have their fill of the din of equal war. of all thing there is satieti,
yea, even of love and sleep, and of sweet song, and danc delect,
whereof a man would sooner have hi fill than of war, but the trojan
ar insati of battl."

thu nobl menelao spake, and strip the bloodi arm from the bodi,
and gave them to hi comrad, and instantli himself went forth again,
and mingl in the forefront of the battl. then harpalion, the son of
king pylaimen, leap out against him, harpalion that follow hi
dear father to troi, to the war, nor ever came again to hi own countri.
he then smote the middl of the shield of atreu' son with hi spear, in
close fight, yet avail not to drive the bronz clean through, but fell
back into the host of hi comrad, avoid fate, glanc round everi
wai, lest on should wound hi flesh with the bronz. but merion shot
at him as he retreat with a bronz-shod arrow, and smote him in the
right buttock, and the arrow went right through the bladder and came out
under the bone. and sit down, even there, in the arm of hi dear
comrad, he breath awai hi soul, ly stretch like a worm on the
earth, and out flow the black blood, and wet the ground. and the
paphlagonian great of heart, tend him busili, and set him in a
chariot, and drove him to sacr ilio sorrow, and with them went hi
father, shed tear, and there wa no aton for hi dead son.

now pari wa veri wroth at heart by reason of hi slai, for he had
been hi host among the mani paphlagonion, wherefor, in wrath for hi
sake, he let fly a bronz-shod arrow. now there wa a certain euchenor,
the son of polyido the seer, a rich man and a good, whose dwell wa
in corinth. and well he knew hi own ruinou fate, when he went on
ship-board, for often would the old man, the good polyido, tell him,
that he must either perish of a sore diseas in hi hall, or go with
the ship of the achaian, and be overcom by the trojan. wherefor he
avoid at onc the heavi war-fine of the achaian, and the hate
diseas, that so he might not know ani anguish. thi man did pari smite
beneath the jaw and under the ear, and swiftli hi spirit depart from
hi limb, and, lo, dread dark overshadow him.

so thei fought like flame fire, but hector, belov of zeu had not
heard nor knew at all that, on the left of the ship, hi host wa be
subdu by the argiv, and soon would the achaian have won renown, so
mighti wa the holder and shaker of the earth that urg on the argiv;
yea, and himself mightili defend them. but hector kept where at first
he had leap within the wall and the gate, and broken the serri
rank of shield-bear danaan, even where were the ship of aia and
protesilao, drawn up on the beach of the hoari sea, while abov the
wall wa build lowest, and therebi chiefli the hero and their hors
were rage in battl.

there the boiotian, and ionian with trail tunic, and lokrian and
phthian and illustri epeian scarc avail to stai hi onslaught
on the ship, nor yet could thei drive back from them nobl hector, like
a flame of fire. and there were the pick men of the athenian; among
them menestheu son of peteo wa the leader; and there follow with
him pheida and stichio, and brave bia, while the epeian were led by
mege, son of phyleu, and amphion and drakio, and in front of the
phthian were medon, and podark resolut in war. now the on, medon,
wa the bastard son of nobl oileu, and brother of aia, and he dwelt
in phylak, far from hi own countri, for that he had slain a man, the
brother of hi stepmoth eriopi, wife of oileu. but the other,
podark, wa the son of iphiklo son of phylako, and thei in their
armour, in the van of the great-heart phthian, were defend the
ship, and fight among the boiotian.

now never at all did aia, the swift son of oileu, depart from the side
of aia, son of telamon, nai, not for an instant, but even as in fallow
land two wine-dark oxen with equal heart strain at the shapen plough,
and round the root of their horn springeth up abund sweat, and
nought sunder them but the polish yoke, as thei labour through the
furrow, till the end of the furrow bring them up, so stood the two
aiant close by each other. now verili did mani and nobl host of hi
comrad follow with the son of telamon, and bore hi shield when labour
and sweat came upon hi limb. but the lokrian follow not with the
high-heart son of oileu, for their heart were not steadfast in close
brunt of battl, see that thei had no helmet of bronz, shadowi with
hors-hair plume, nor round shield, nor ashen spear, but trust in
bow and well-twist sling of sheep's wool, thei follow with him to
ilio. therewith, in the war, thei shot thick and fast, and brake the
rank of the trojan. so the on parti in front contend with the
trojan, and with hector arrai in bronz, while the other from behind
kept shoot from their ambush, and the trojan lost all memori of the
joi of battl, for the arrow confound them.

there then right ruefulli from the ship and the hut would the trojan
have withdrawn to windi ilio, had not polydama come near valiant
hector and said: "hector, thou art hard to be persuad by them that
would counsel thee; for that god ha given thee excel in the work
of war, therefor in council also thou art fain to excel other men in
knowledg. but in nowis wilt thou be abl to take everyth on
thyself. for to on man ha god given for hi portion the work of war,
[to anoth the danc, to anoth the lute and song,] but in the heart
of yet anoth hath far-see zeu place an excel understand,
whereof mani men get gain, yea he saveth mani an on, and himself best
knoweth it. but, lo, i will speak even as it seemeth best to me. behold
all about thee the circl of war is blaze, but the great-heart
trojan, now that thei have got down the wall, ar some with their arm
stand aloof and some ar fight, few men against a host, be
scatter among the ship. nai, withdraw thee, and call hither all the
best of the warrior. thereaft shall we take all counsel carefulli,
whether we should fall on the ship of mani bench, if inde god
willeth to give us victori, or after counsel held, should return
unharm from the ship. for verili i fear lest the achaian repai their
debt of yesterdai, sinc by the ship there tarrieth a man insati of
war, and never, methink, will he wholli stand aloof from battl."

so spake polydama, and hi safe counsel pleas hector well, who spake
to him wing word and said: "polydama, do thou stai here all the best
of the host, but i will go thither to face the war, and swiftli will
return again, when i have straitli laid on them my command."

so he spake, and set forth, in semblanc like a snowi mountain, and
shout aloud he flew through the trojan and alli. and thei all sped
to polydama, the kindli son of panthoo, when thei heard the voic of
hector. but he went seek deiphobo, and the strong princ heleno,
and adama son of asio, and asio son of hyrtako, among the warrior
in the foremost line, if anywher he might find them. but them he found
not at all unharm, nor free of bane, but, lo, some among the stern of
the ship of the achaian lai lifeless, slain by the hand of the
argiv, and some were within the wall wound by thrust or cast. but
on he readili found, on the left of the dolor battl, goodli
alexandro, the lord of fair-tress helen, hearten hi comrad and
speed them to war. and he drew near to him, and address him with
word of shame: "thou evil pari, fairest of face, thou that lustest for
women, thou seduc, where, prithe, ar deiphobo, and the strong
princ heleno, and adama son of asio, and asio son of hyrtako, and
where is othryoneu? now hath all high ilio perish utterli. now, too,
thou seest, is sheer destruct sure."

then godlik alexandro answer him again sai: "hector, sinc thy
mind is to blame on that is blameless, some other dai might i rather
withdraw me from the war, sinc my mother bare not even me wholli a
coward. for from the time that thou didst gather the battl of thy
comrad about the ship, from that hour do we abid here, and war with
the danaan ceaselessli; and our comrad concern whom thou inquirest
ar slain. onli deiphobo and the strong princ heleno have both
withdrawn, both of them be wound in the hand with long spear, for
kronion kept death awai from them. but now lead on, wheresoev thy
heart and spirit bid thee, and we will follow with thee eagerli, nor
methink shall we lack for valour, as far as we have strength; but beyond
hi strength mai no man fight, howsoev eager he be."

so spake the hero, and persuad hi brother's heart, and thei went
forth where the war and din were thickest, round kebrion, and nobl
polydama, and phalk, and orthaio, and godlik polyphet, and
palmi, and askanio, and mori, son of hippot, who had come in their
turn, out of deep-soil askani, on the morn befor, and now zeu
urg them to fight. and these set forth like the blast of violent
wind, that rush earthward beneath the thunder of zeu, and with
marvel din doth mingl with the salt sea, and therein ar mani
swell wave of the loud roar sea, arch over and white with foam,
some vanward, other in the rear; even so the trojan arrai in van and
rear and shine with bronz, follow after their leader.

and hector son of priam wa lead them, the peer of ar, the bane of
men. in front he held the circl of hi shield, thick with hide, and
plate of beaten bronz, and on hi templ swai hi shine helm. and
everywher he went in advanc and made trial of the rank, if perchanc
thei would yield to him as he charg under cover of hi shield. but he
could not confound the heart within the breast of the achaian. and
aia, stalk with long stride, challeng him first: "sir, draw nigh,
wherefor dost thou vainli try to dismai the argiv? we ar in no wise
ignor of war, but by the cruel scourg of zeu ar we achaian
vanquish. sure now thy heart hope utterli to spoil the ship, but
we too have hand present to hold our own. verili your peopl citi
will long er that beneath our hand be taken and sack. but for thee, i
tell thee that the time is at hand, when thou shalt prai in thy flight
to zeu, and the other immort god, that thy fair-mane steed mai be
fleeter than falcon: thy steed that ar to bear thee to the citi, as
thei storm in dust across the plain."

and even as he spake, a bird flew forth on the right hand, an eagl of
lofti flight, and the host of the achaian shout thereat, encourag
by the omen, but renown hector answer: "aia, thou blunder
boaster, what sayest thou! would that inde i were for ever as sure
the son of aegi-bear zeu, and that my mother were ladi hera, and
that i were held in such honour as apollo and athen, as verili thi dai
is to bring utter evil on all the argiv! and thou among them shalt be
slain, if thou hast the heart to await my long spear, which shall rend
thy lili skin, and thou shalt glut with thy fat and flesh the bird and
dog of the trojan, fall among the ship of the achaian."

so he spake and led the wai, and thei follow with wondrou din, and
the whole host shout behind. and the argiv on the other side
answer with a shout, and forgot not their valianc, but abod the
onslaught of the bravest of the trojan. and the cry of the two host
went up through the higher air, to the splendour of zeu.



book xiv.

    how sleep and hera beguil zeu to slumber on the height
    of ida, and poseidon spur on the achaian to resist
    hector, and how hector wa wound.

yet the cry of battl escap not nestor, albeit at hi wine, but he
spake wing word to the son of asklepio: "bethink thee, nobl
machaon, what had best be done; lo, louder wax the cry of the strong
warrior by the ship. nai, now sit where thou art, and drink the bright
wine, till hekamed of the fair tress shall heat warm water for the
bath, and wash awai the clot blood, but i will speedili go forth and
come to a place of outlook."

therewith he took the well-wrought shield of hi son, hors-tame
thrasymed, which wa ly in the hut, all glister with bronz, for
the son had the shield of hi father. and he seiz a strong spear, with
a point of keen bronz, and stood outsid the hut, and straightwai
beheld a deed of shame, the achaian flee in rout, and the
high-heart trojan drive them, and the wall of the achaian wa
overthrown. and as when the great sea is troubl with a dumb wave, and
dimli bode the sudden path of the shrill wind, but is still unmov
nor yet roll forward or to either side, until some steadi gale come
down from zeu, even so the old man ponder,--hi mind divid thi
wai and that,--whether he should fare into the press of the danaan of
the swift steed, or go after agamemnon, son of atreu, shepherd of the
host. and thu as he ponder, it seem to him the better counsel to go
to the son of atreu. meanwhil thei were war and slai each
other, and the stout bronz rang about their bodi as thei were thrust
with sword and doubl-point spear.

now the king, the fosterl of zeu, encount nestor, as thei went
up from the ship, even thei that were wound with the bronz, tydeu'
son, and odysseu, and agamemnon, son of atreu. for far apart from the
battl were their ship drawn up, on the shore of the grei sea, for
these were the first thei had drawn up to the plain, but had build the
wall in front of the hindmost. for in no wise might the beach, wide as
it wa, hold all the ship, and the host wa straiten. wherefor thei
drew up the ship row within row, and fill up the wide mouth of all
the shore that the headland held between them. therefor the king were
go togeth, lean on their spear, to look on the war and frai,
and the heart of each wa sore within hi breast. and the old man met
them, even nestor, and caus the spirit to fail within the breast of
the achaian.

and mighti agamemnon spake and accost him: "o nestor, son of neleu,
great glori of the achaian, wherefor dost thou come hither and hast
desert the war, the bane of men? lo, i fear the accomplish of the
word that dread hector spake, and the threat wherewith he threaten us,
speak in the assembl of the trojan, name, that never would he
return to ilio from the ship, till he had burn the ship with fire,
and slain the men. even so he spake, and, lo, now all these thing ar
be fulfil. ala, sure even the other well-greav achaian store
wrath against me in their heart, like achil, and have no desir to
fight by the rearmost ship."

then nestor of gerenia the knight answer him sai "verili these
thing ar now at hand, and be accomplish, nor otherwis could zeu
himself contriv them, he that thundereth on high. for, lo, the wall is
overthrown, wherein we trust that it should be an unbroken bulwark of
the ship and of our own bodi. but let us take counsel, how these
thing mai best be done, if wit mai do aught: but into the war i counsel
not that we should go down, for in no wise mai a wound man do battl."

then agamemnon king of men answer him again: "nestor, for that thei
ar war by the rearmost ship, and the well-build wall hath
avail not, nor the trench, whereat the achaian endur so much
labour, hope in their heart that it should be the unbroken bulwark of
the ship, and of their own bodi--such it seemeth must be the will
of zeu suprem, [that the achaian should perish here nameless far from
argo]. for i knew it when he wa forward to aid the danaan, and now i
know that he is give to the trojan glori like that of the bless
god, and hath bound our hand and our strength. but come, as i declar,
let us all obei. let us drag down the ship that ar drawn up in the
first line near to the sea, and speed them all forth to the salt sea
divin, and moor them far out with stone, till the divin night come,
if even at night the trojan will refrain from war, and then might we
drag down all the ship. for there is no shame in flee from ruin,
yea, even in the night. better doth he fare who flee from troubl, than
he that is overtaken."

then, look on him sternli, spake odysseu of mani counsel: "atreu'
son, what word hath pass the door of thy lip? man of mischief, sure
thou shouldst lead some other inglori armi, not be king among us, to
whom zeu hath given it, from youth even unto ag, to wind the skein of
grievou war, till everi man of us perish. art thou inde so eager
to leav the wide-wai citi of the trojan, the citi for which we
endur with sorrow so mani evil? be silent, lest some other of the
achaian hear thi word, that no man should so much as suffer to pass
through hi mouth, none that understandeth in hi heart how to speak
fit counsel, none that is a sceptr king, and hath host obei him so
mani as the argiv over whom thou reignest. and now i wholli scorn thy
thought, such a word as thou hast utter, thou that, in the midst of
war and battl, dost bid us draw down the well-timber ship to the
sea, that even more than ever the trojan mai possess their desir,
albeit thei win the masteri even now, and sheer destruct fall upon
us. for the achaian will not make good the war, when the ship ar
drawn down to the salt sea, but will look round about to flee, and
withdraw from battl. there will thy counsel work a mischief, o marshal
of the host!"

then the king of men, agamemnon, answer him: "odysseu, right sharpli
hast thou touch my heart with thy stern reproof: nai, i do not bid the
son of the achaian to drag, against their will, the well-timber
ship to the salt sea. now perchanc there mai be on who will utter a
wiser counsel than thi of mine,--a young man or an old,--welcom
would it be to me."

then diomed of the loud war-cry spake also among them: "the man is
near,--not long shall we seek him, if ye be will to be persuad of
me, and each of you be not resent at all, becaus in year i am the
youngest among you. nai, but i too boast me to come by lineag of a
nobl sire, tydeu, whom in thebe the pile-up earth doth cover. for
portheu had three well-born children, and thei dwelt in pleuron, and
steep kalydon, even agrio and mela, and the third wa oineu the
knight, the father of my father, and in valour he excel the other.
and there he abod, but my father dwelt at argo, whither he had
wander, for so zeu and the other god will that it should be. and
he wed on of the daughter of adrasto, and dwelt in a hous full of
livelihood, and had wheat-bear field enow, and mani orchard of
tree apart, and mani sheep were hi, and in skill with the spear he
excel all the achaian: these thing ye must have heard, if i speak
sooth. therefor ye could not sai that i am weak and a coward by
lineag, and so dishonour my spoken counsel, that well i mai speak. let
us go down to the battl, wound as we ar, sinc we need must; and
then might we hold ourselv aloof from the battl, beyond the rang of
dart, lest ani take wound upon wound; but the other will we spur on,
even them that aforetim gave place to their passion, and stand apart,
and fight not."

so he spake, and thei all heard him readili, and obei him. and thei
set forth, led by agamemnon the king of men.

now the renown earth-shaker held no vain watch, but went with them in
the guis of an ancient man, and he seiz the right hand of agamemnon,
atreu' son, and utter wing word he spake to him, sai:
"atreid, now methink the ruinou heart of achil rejoic in hi
breast, as he behold the slaughter and flight of the achaian, sinc he
hath no wisdom, not a grain. nai, even so mai he perish likewis, and
god mar him. but with thee the bless god ar not utterli wroth, nai,
even yet methink the leader and ruler of the trojan will cover the
wide plain with dust, and thyself shalt see them flee to the citi
from the ship and the hut."

so spake he, and shout mightili, as he sped over the plain. and loud
as nine thousand men, or ten thousand cry in battl, when thei join the
strife of war, so mighti wa the cry that the strong shaker of the earth
sent forth from hi breast, and great strength he put into the heart of
each of the achaian, to strive and war unceasingli.

now hera of the golden throne stood on the peak of olympu, and saw with
her ey, and anon knew him that wa her brother and her lord's go to
and fro through the gloriou fight, and she rejoic in her heart. and
she beheld zeu sit on the topmost crest of mani-fountain ida, and
to her heart he wa hate. then she took thought, the ox-ei ladi
hera, how she might beguil the mind of aegi-bear zeu. and thi
seem to her in her heart to be the best counsel, name to fare to
ida, when she had well adorn herself, if perchanc a sweet sleep and a
kindli she could pour on hi ey lid and hi crafti wit. and she set
forth to her bower, that her dear son hephaisto had fashion, and
therein had made fast strong door on the pillar, with a secret bolt,
that no other god might open. there did she enter in and close the
shine door. with ambrosia first did she cleans everi stain from her
winsom bodi, and anoint her with oliv oil, ambrosi, soft, and of a
sweet savour; if it were but shaken, in the bronz-floor mansion of
zeu, the savour thereof went right forth to earth and heaven. therewith
she anoint her fair bodi, and comb her hair, and with her hand
plait her shine tress, fair and ambrosi, flow from her
immort head. then she clad her in her fragrant robe that athen
wrought delic for her, and therein set mani thing beautifulli
made, and fasten it over her breast with clasp of gold. and she
girdl it with a girdl arrai with a hundr tassel, and she set
ear in her pierc ear, ear of three drop, and glister,
therefrom shone grace abundantli. and with a veil over all the peerless
goddess veil herself, a fair new veil, bright as the sun, and beneath
her shine feet she bound goodli sandal. but when she had adorn her
bodi with all her arrai, she went forth from her bower, and call
aphrodit apart from the other god, and spake to her, sai: "wilt
thou obei me, dear child, in that which i shall tell thee? or wilt thou
refus, with a grudg in thy heart, becaus i succour the danaan, and
thou the trojan?"

then aphrodit the daughter of zeu answer her: "hera, goddess queen,
daughter of mighti krono, sai the thing that is in thy mind, my heart
bid me fulfil it, if fulfil it i mai, and if it mai be accomplish."

then with crafti purpos the ladi hera answer her: "give me now love
and desir wherewith thou dost overcom all the immort, and mortal
men. for i am go to visit the limit of the bounti earth, and
okeano, father of the god, and mother tethi, who rear me well and
nourish me in their hall, have taken me from rhea, when far-see
zeu imprison krono beneath the earth and the unvintag sea. them am
i go to visit, and their endless strife will i loos, for alreadi
thi long time thei hold apart from each other, sinc wrath hath settl
in their heart. if with word i might persuad their heart, and bring
them back to love, ever should i be call dear to them and worship."

then laughter-love aphrodit answer her again: "it mai not be, nor
seemli were it, to deni that thou askest, for thou steepest in the arm
of zeu, the chief of god."

therewith from her breast she loos the broider girdl, fair-wrought,
wherein ar all her enchant; therein ar love, and desir, and
love convers, that steal the wit even of the wise. thi girdl she
laid in her hand, and spake, and said: "lo now, take thi girdl and
lai it up in thy bosom, thi fair-wrought girdl, wherein all thing ar
fashion; methink thou wilt not return with that unaccomplish, which
in thy heart thou desirest."

so spake she, and the ox-ei ladi hera smile, and smile laid up the
zone within her breast.

then the daughter of zeu, aphrodit, went to her hous, and hera,
rush down, left the peak of olympu, and sped' over the snowi hill
of the thracian horsemen, even over the topmost crest, nor graze the
ground with her feet, and from atho she fare across the foam sea,
and came to lemno, the citi of godlik thoa. there she met sleep, the
brother of death, and clasp her hand in hi, and spake and call him
by name: "sleep, lord of all god and of all men, if ever thou didst
hear my word, obei me again even now, and i will be grate to thee
alwai. lull me, i prai thee, the shine ey of zeu beneath hi
brow. and gift i will give to thee, even a fair throne, imperish
for ever, a golden throne, that hephaisto the lame, mine own child,
shall fashion skilfulli, and will set beneath it a footstool for the
feet, for thee to set thy shine feet upon, when thou art at a
festiv. nai come, and i will give thee on of the younger of the
grace, to wed and to be call thy wife."

so she spake, and sleep wa glad, and answer and said:--"come now,
swear to me by the inviol water of styx, and with on of thy hand
grasp the bounteou earth, and with the other the shine sea, that all
mai be wit to us, even all the god below that ar with krono,
that verili thou wilt give me on of the younger of the grace, even
pasithea, that myself do long for all my dai."

so spake he, nor did she disobei, the white-arm goddess hera; she
sware as he bade her, and call all the god by name, even those below
tartaro that ar call titan. but when she had sworn and end that
oath, the twain left the citadel of lemno, and of imbro, cloth on in
mist, and swiftli thei accomplish the wai. to mani-fountain ida thei
came, the mother of wild beast, to lekton, where first thei left the
sea, and thei twain fare abov the dry land, and the topmost forest
wave beneath their feet. there sleep halt, er the ey of zeu
beheld him, and alight on a tall pine tree, the loftiest pine that
then in all ida rose through the nether to the upper air. but hera
swiftli drew nigh to topmost gargaro, the highest crest of ida, and
zeu the cloud-gather beheld her. and as he saw her, so love came over
hi deep heart, and he stood befor her, and spoke, and said: "hera,
with what desir comest thou thu hither from olympu, and thy hors
and chariot ar not here, whereon thou mightst ascend?"

then with crafti purpos ladi hera answer him: "i am go to visit
the limit of the bounti earth, and okeano, father of the god, and
mother tethi, who rear me well and cherish me in their hall. them
am i go to visit, and their endless strife will i loos, for alreadi
thi long time thei hold apart from each other, sinc wrath hath settl
in their heart. but my hors ar stand at the foot of
mani-fountain ida, my hors that shall bear me over wet and dry. and
now it is becaus of thee that i am thu come hither, down from olympu,
lest perchanc thou mightest be wroth with me hereaft, if silent i
were gone to the mansion of deep-flow okeano."

then zeu, the gather of the cloud, answer her and said: "hera,
thither mayst thou go on a later dai. for never onc as thu did the
love of goddess or woman so mightili overflow and conquer the heart
within my breast."

thu slept the father in quiet on the crest of gargaro, by sleep and
love overcom. but sweet sleep start and ran to the ship of the
achaian, to tell hi tide to the god that holdeth and shaketh the
earth. and he stood near him, and spake wing word: "eagerli now,
poseidon, do thou aid the danaan, and give them glori for a littl
space, while yet zeu sleepeth, for over him have i shed soft slumber,
and hera hath beguil him."

so he spake, and pass to the renown tribe of men, and still the
more did he set on poseidon to aid the danaan, who straightwai sprang
far afront of the foremost, and call to them: "argiv, ar we again
to yield the victori to hector, son of priam, that he mai take our ship
and win renown? nai, even so he saith and declareth that he will do, for
that achil by the hollow ship abid anger at heart. but for him
there will be no such extrem regret, if we spur us on to aid each the
other. nai come, as i command, let us all obei. let us har us in the
best shield that ar in the host, and the greatest, and cover our head
with shine helm, and take the longest spear in our hand, and so go
forth. yea, and i will lead the wai, and methink that hector, son of
priam, will not long await us, for all hi eager. and whatsoev man
is steadfast in battl, and hath a small buckler on hi shoulder, let
him give it to a wors man, and har him in a larger shield."

so spake he, and thei heard him eagerli and obei him. and them the
king themselv arrai, wound as thei were, tydeu' son, and
odysseu, and agamemnon, son of atreu. thei went through all the host,
and made exchang of weapon of war. the good arm did the good warrior
har him in, the wors he gave to the wors. but when thei had done
on the shine bronz about their bodi, thei start on the march, and
poseidon led them, the shaker of the earth, with a dread sword of fine
edg in hi strong hand, like unto lightn; wherewith it is not
permit that ani should mingl in woful war, but fear hold men afar
therefrom. but the trojan on the other side wa renown hector
arrai. then did thei now strain the fiercest strife of war, even
dark-hair poseidon and gloriou hector, on succour the trojan,
the other with the argiv. and the sea wash up to the hut and ship
of the argiv, and thei gather togeth with a mighti cry. not so
loudli bellow the wave of the sea against the land, stir up from the
deep by the harsh breath of the north wind, nor so loud is the roar of
burn fire in the glade of a mountain, when it spring to burn up the
forest, nor call the wind so loudli in the high leafi tress of the
tree, when it rage and roar it loudest, as then wa the cry of the
trojan and achaian, shout dreadfulli as thei rush upon each
other.

first gloriou hector cast with hi spear at aia, who wa face him
full, and did not miss, strike him where two belt were stretch
across hi breast, the belt of hi shield, and of hi silver-stud
sword; these guard hi tender flesh. and hector wa enrag becaus
hi swift spear had flown vainli from hi hand, and he retreat into
the throng of hi fellow, avoid fate.

then as he wa depart the great telamonian aia smote him with a huge
stone; for mani stone, the prop of swift ship, were roll among the
feet of the fighter; on of these he lift, and smote hector on the
breast, over the shield-rim, near the neck, and made him spin like a top
with the blow, that he reel round and round. and even as when an oak
fall uproot beneath the stroke of father zeu, and a dread savour of
brimston aris therefrom, and whoso stand near and behold it ha no
more courag, for dread is the bolt of great zeu, even so fell mighti
hector straightwai in the dust. and the spear fell from hi hand, but
hi shield and helm were made fast to him, and round him rang hi arm
adorn with bronz.

then with a loud cry thei ran up, the son of the achaian, hope to
drag him awai, and thei cast shower of dart. but not on avail to
wound or smite the shepherd of the host, befor that might be the
bravest gather about him, polydama, and aineia, and goodli agenor,
and sarpedon, leader of the lykian, and nobl glauko, and of the rest
not on wa heedless of him, but thei held their round shield in front
of him, and hi comrad lift him in their arm, and bare him out of
the battl, till he reach hi swift hors that were stand wait
for him, with the chariot and the fair-dight chariot at the rear of
the combat and the war. these toward the citi bore him heavili moan.
now when thei came to the ford of the fair-flow river, of eddi
xantho, that immort zeu begat, there thei lift him from the
chariot to the ground, and pour water over him, and he gat back hi
breath, and look up with hi ey, and sit on hi heel kneel,
he vomit black blood. then again he sank back on the ground, and black
night cover hi ey, the stroke still conquer hi spirit.



book xv.

    zeu awaken, biddeth apollo reviv hector, and restor
    the fortun of the trojan. fire is thrown on the ship of
    protesilao.

now when thei had sped in flight across the palisad and trench, and
mani were overcom at the hand of the danaan, the rest were stai,
and abod besid the chariot in confus, and pale with terror, and
zeu awok, on the peak of ida, besid hera of the golden throne. then
he leap up, and stood, and beheld the trojan and achaian, those in
flight, and these drive them on from the rear, even the argiv, and
among them the princ poseidon. and hector he saw ly on the plain,
and around him sat hi comrad, and he wa gasp with difficult
breath, and hi mind wander, and wa vomit blood, for it wa not
the weakest of the achaian that had smitten him. behold him, the
father of men and god had piti on him, and terribl he spoke to hera,
with fierc look: "o thou ill to deal with, hera, verili it is thy
crafti wile that ha made nobl hector ceas from the fight, and ha
terrifi the host. nai, but yet i know not whether thou mayst not be
the first to reap the fruit of thy cruel treason, and i beat thee with
stripe. dost thou not rememb, when thou wert hung from on high, and
from thy feet i suspend two anvil, and round thy hand fasten a
golden bond that might not be broken? and thou didst hang in the clear
air and the cloud, and the god were wroth in high olympu, but thei
could not come round and unloos thee."

so spake he, and the ox-ei ladi hera shudder, and spake unto him
wing word, sai: "let earth now be wit hereto, and wide heaven
abov, and that fall water of styx, the greatest oath and the most
terribl to the bless god, and thine own sacr head, and our own
bridal bed, wherebi never would i forswear myself, that not by my will
doe earth-shake poseidon troubl the trojan and hector, and succour
them of the other part. nai, it is hi own soul that urgeth and
commandeth him, and he had piti on the achaian, when he beheld them
hard press besid the ship. i would even counsel him also to go even
where thou, lord of the storm-cloud, mayst lead him."

so spake she, and the father of god and men smile, and answer her
he spake wing word: "if thou, of a truth, o ox-ei ladi hera,
wouldst hereaft abid of on mind with me among the immort god,
thereon would poseidon, howsoev much hi wish be contrariwis, quickli
turn hi mind otherwher, after thy heart and mine. but if inde thou
speakest the truth and soothli, go thou now among the tribe of the
god, and call iri to come hither, and apollo, the renown archer,
that iri mai go among the host of mail-clad achaian and tell poseidon
the princ to ceas from the war, and get him unto hi own hous. but
let phoebu apollo spur hector on to the war, and breath strength into
him again, and make him forget hi anguish, that now wear down hi
heart, and drive the achaian back again, when he hath stir in them
craven fear. let them flee and fall among the mani-bench ship of
achil son of peleu, and he shall rous hi own comrad, patroklo;
and him shall renown hector slai with the spear, in front of ilio,
after that he ha slain mani other youth, and among them my son, nobl
sarpedon. in wrath therefor shall goodli achil slai hector. from that
hour verili will i caus a new pursuit from the ship, that shall endur
continu, even until the achaian take steep ilio, through the
counsel of athen. but befor that hour neither do i ceas in my wrath,
nor will i suffer ani other of the immort to help the danaan there,
befor i accomplish that desir of the son of peleu, as i promis him
at the first, and confirm the same with a nod of my head, on that dai
when the goddess theti clasp my knee, implor me to honour
achil, the sacker of citi."

so spake he, nor did the white-arm goddess hera disobei him, and she
sped down from the hill of ida to high olympu, and went among the
gather of the immort god. and she call apollo without the hall
and iri, that is the messeng of the immort god, and she spake
wing word, and address them, sai: "zeu bid you go to ida as
swiftli as mai be, and when ye have gone, and look on the face of
zeu, do ye whatsoev he shall order and command."

and these twain came befor the face of zeu the cloud gather, and
stood there, and he wa nowis displeas at heart when he beheld them,
for that speedili thei had obei the word of hi dear wife. and to
iri first he spake wing word: "go, get thee, swift iri, to the
princ poseidon, and tell him all these thing, nor be a fals
messeng. command him to ceas from war and battl, and to go among the
tribe of the god, or into the bright sea. but if he will not obei my
word, but will hold me in no regard, then let him consid in hi heart
and mind, lest he dare not for all hi strength to abid me when i come
against him, sinc i deem me to be far mightier than he, and elder
born."

so spake he, nor did the wind-foot fleet iri disobei him, but went
down the hill of ida to sacr ilio. and as when snow or chill hail
fleet from the cloud beneath the stress of the north wind born in the
clear air, so fleetli she fled in her eager, swift iri, and drew
near the renown earth-shaker and spake to him the messag of zeu. and
he left the host of the achaian, and pass to the sea, and sank, and
sore thei miss him, the hero of the achaian.

then zeu, the gather of the cloud, spake to apollo, sai: "go now,
dear phoebu, to hector of the helm of bronz. let gloriou hector be
thy care, and rous in him great wrath even till the achaian come in
their flight to the ship, and the hellespont. and from that moment will
i devis word and deed wherewith the achaian mai take breath again
from their toil."

so spake he, nor wa apollo deaf to the word of the father, but he went
down the hill of ida like a fleet falcon, the bane of dove, that is
the swiftest of fly thing. and he found the son of wise-heart
priam, nobl hector, sit up, no longer ly, for he had but late
got back hi life, and knew the comrad around him, and hi gasp and
hi sweat had ceas, from the moment when the will of aegi-bear
zeu began to reviv him. then far-dart apollo stood near him, and
spake to him: "hector, son of priam, why dost thou sit faint apart
from the other? is it perchanc that some troubl cometh upon thee?"

then, with faint breath answer him hector of the glanc helm: "nai,
but who art thou, best of the god, who enquirest of me face to face?
dost thou not know that by the hindmost row of the ship of the
achaian, aia of the loud war-cry smote me on the breast with a stone,
as i wa slai hi comrad, and made me ceas from mine impetu
might? and verili i deem that thi veri dai i should pass to the dead,
and the hous of hade, when i had gasp my life awai."

then princ apollo the far-darter answer him again: "take courag now,
so great an alli hath the son of krono sent thee out of ida, to stand
by thee and defend thee, even phoebu apollo of the golden sword, me who
of old defend thee, thyself and the steep citadel. but come now, bid thy
mani chariot drive their swift steed against the hollow ship, and
i will go befor and make smooth all the wai for the chariot, and will
put to flight the achaian hero."

so he spake, and breath great might into the shepherd of the host, and
even as when a stall hors, full fed at the manger, break hi tether
and speedeth at the gallop over the plain exultingli, be wont to
bath in the fair-flow stream, and hold hi head on high, and the
mane floweth about hi shoulder, and he trusteth in hi glori, and
nimbl hi knee bear him to the haunt and pastur of the mare, even
so hector lightli move hi feet and knee, urg on hi horsemen, when
he heard the voic of the god. but as when hound and countri folk
pursu a horn stag, or a wild goat, that steep rock and shadi wood
save from them, nor is it their lot to find him, but at their clamour a
beard lion hath shown himself on the wai, and lightli turn them all
despit their eager, even so the danaan for a while follow on
alwai in their compani, smite with sword and doubl-point
spear, but when thei saw hector go up and down the rank of men,
then were thei afraid, and the heart of all fell to their feet.

then to them spake thoa, son of andraimon, far the best of the
aitolian, skill in throw the dart, and good in close fight, and in
council did few of the achaian surpass him, when the young men were
strive in debat; he made harangu and spake among them: "ala, and
verili a great marvel is thi i behold with mine ey, how he hath again
arisen, and hath avoid the fate, even hector. sure each of us hope
in hi heart, that he had di beneath the hand of aia, son of telamon.
but some on of the god again hath deliv and save hector, who
verili hath loosen the knee of mani of the danaan, as methink will
befal even now, for not without the will of loud-thunder zeu doth
he rise in the front rank, thu eager for battl. but come, as i
declar let us all obei. let us bid the throng turn back to the ship,
but let us as mani as avow us to be the best in the host, take our
stand, if perchanc first we mai meet him, and hold him off with
outstretch spear, and he, methink, for all hi eager, will fear
at heart to enter into the press of the danaan."

so spake he, and thei heard him eagerli, and obei him. thei that were
with aia and the princ idomeneu, and teukro, and nerion, and mege
the peer of ar, call to all the best of the warrior and sustain
the fight with hector and the trojan, but behind them the multitud
return to the ship of the achaian.

now the trojan drave forward in close rank, and with long stride
hector led them, while in front of him went phoebu apollo, hi
shoulder wrap in cloud, and still he held the fell aegi, dread,
circl with a shaggi fring, and gleam, that hephaisto the smith
gave to zeu, to bear for the terror of men; with thi in hi hand did
he lead the host.

now the argiv abod them in close rank, and shrill the cry aros on
both side, and the arrow leap from the bow-string, and mani spear
from stalwart hand, whereof some stood fast in the flesh of young men
swift in fight, but mani halfwai, er ever thei reach the white flesh,
stuck in the ground, long to glut themselv with flesh. now so long
as phoebu apollo held the aegi unmov in hi hand, so long the dart
smote either side amain, and the folk fell. but when he look face to
face on the danaan of the swift steed, and shook the aegi, and
himself shout mightili, he quell their heart in their breast, and
thei forgot their impetu valour. and as when two wild beast drive in
confus a herd of kine, or a great flock of sheep, in the dark hour of
black night, come swiftli on them when the herdsman is not by, even so
were the achaian terror-stricken and strengthless, for apollo sent a
panic among them, but still gave renown to the trojan and hector.

and hector smote hi hors on the shoulder with the lash, and call
aloud on the trojan along the rank. and thei all cri out, and level
with hi held the steed that drew their chariot, with a marvel
din, and in front of them phoebu apollo lightli dash down with hi
feet the bank of the deep ditch, and cast them into the midst thereof,
make a bridgewai long and wide as is a spear-cast, when a man throw
to make trial of hi strength. therebi the trojan pour forward in
their battalion, while in their van apollo held the splendid aegi. and
most easili did he cast down the wall of the achaian, as when a boi
scatter the sand besid the sea, first make sand build for sport
in hi childish, and then again, in hi sport, confound them with
hi feet and hand; even so didst thou, archer apollo, confound the long
toil and labour of the argiv, and among them rous a panic fear.

so thei were halt, and abid by the ship, call each to other;
and lift their hand to all the god did each man prai vehement,
and chiefli prai nestor, the warden of the achaian, stretch hi
hand toward the starri heaven: "o father zeu, if ever ani on of us in
wheat-bear argo did burn to thee fat thigh of bull or sheep, and
prai that he might return, and thou didst promis and assent thereto,
of these thing be thou mind, and avert, olympian, the pitiless dai,
nor suffer the trojan thu to overcom the achaian."

so spake he in hi prayer, and zeu, the lord of counsel, thunder
loudli, hear the prayer of the ancient son of neleu.

but the trojan when thei heard the thunder of aegi-bear zeu,
rush yet the more eagerli upon the argiv, and were mind of the
joi of battl. and as when a great wave of the wide sea sweep over the
bulwark of a ship, the might of the wind constrain it, which chiefli
swell the wave, even so did the trojan with a great cry bound over
the wall, and drave their hors on, and at the hindmost row of the
ship were fight hand to hand with doubl-point spear, the trojan
from the chariot, but the achaian climb up aloft, from the black
ship with long pike that thei had ly in the ship for battl at
sea, joint pike shod at the head with bronz.

now the trojan, like raven lion, rush upon the ship, fulfil
the behest of zeu, that ever wa rous their great wrath, but
soften the temper of the argiv, and took awai their glori, while he
spur on the other. for the heart of zeu wa set on give glori to
hector, the son of priam, that withal he might cast fierc-blaze fire,
unweari, upon the beak ship, and so fulfil all the presumptu
prayer of theti; wherefor wise-counsel zeu await, till hi ey
should see the glare of a burn ship. for even from that hour wa he
to ordain the backward chase of the trojan from the ship, and to give
glori to the danaan. with thi design wa he rous hector, priam's
son, that himself wa right eager, against the hollow ship. for short
of life wa he to be, yea, and alreadi palla athen wa urg against
him the dai of destini, at the hand of the son of peleu. and fain he
wa to break the rank of men, try them wheresoev he saw the
thickest press, and the goodliest har. yet not even so might he
break them for all hi eager. nai, thei stood firm, and embattl
like a steep rock and a great, hard by the hoari sea, a rock that abid
the swift path of the shrill wind, and the swell wave that roar
against it. even so the danaan steadfastli abod the trojan and fled
not awai. but hector shine with fire on all side leap on the
throng, and fell upon them, as when beneath the storm-cloud a fleet
wave rear of the wind fall on a swift ship, and she is all hidden
with foam, and the dread blast of the wind roar against the sail, and
the sailor fear, and trembl in their heart, for by but a littl wai
ar thei born forth from death, even so the spirit wa torn in the
breast of the achaian.

so again keen battl wa set by the ship. thou wouldst deem that
unweari and unworn thei met each other in war, so eagerli thei fought.
and in their strive thei were mind thu; the achaian verili deem
that never would thei flee from the danger, but perish there, but the
heart of each trojan hope in hi breast, that thei should fire the
ship, and slai the hero of the achaian. with these imagin thei
stood to each other, and hector seiz the stern of a seafar ship, a
fair ship, swift on the brine, that had born protesilao to troia, but
brought him not back again to hi own countri. now round hi ship the
achaian and trojan war on each other hand to hand, nor far apart
did thei endur the flight of arrow, nor of dart, but stand hard
each by other, with on heart, with sharp ax and hatchet thei fought,
and with great sword, and doubl-point spear. and mani fair brand,
dark-scabbard and hilt, fell to the ground, some from the hand,
some from off the shoulder of war men, and the black earth ran with
blood. but hector, after that onc he had seiz the ship's stern, left
not hi hold, keep the ensign in hi hand, and he call to the
trojan: "bring fire, and all with on voic do ye rais the war-cry;
now hath zeu given us the dearest dai of all,--to take the ship that
came hither against the will of the god, and brought mani woe upon us,
by the cowardic of the elder, who withheld me when i wa eager to
fight at the stern of the ship, and kept back the host. but if even
then far-see zeu did harm our wit, now he himself doth urg and
command us onward." so spake he, and thei set yet the fiercer on the
argiv. and aia no longer abod their onset, for he wa driven back by
the dart, but he withdrew a littl,--think that now he should
die,--on to the oarsman's bench of seven feet long, and he left the
deck of the trim ship. there then he stood on the watch, and with hi
spear he ever drave the trojan from the ship, whosoev brought
unweari fire, and ever he shout terribl, call to the danaan: "o
friend, danaan hero, men of ar' compani, plai the man, my friend,
and be mind of impetu valour. do we deem that there be alli at
our back, or some wall stronger than thi to ward off death from men?
verili there is not hard by ani citi arrai with tower, wherebi we
might defend ourselv, have a host that could turn the balanc of
battl. nai, but we ar set down in the plain of the mail men of troi,
with our back against the sea, and far off from our own land. therefor
is safeti in battl, and not in slacken from the fight." so spake he,
and rush on raven for battl, with hi keen spear. and whosoev of
the trojan wa come against the ship with blaze fire, to pleasur
hector at hi urg, him would aia wound, await him with hi long
spear, and twelv men in front of the ship at close quarter did he
wound.



book xvi.

    how patroklo fought in the armour of achil, and drove
    the trojan from the ship, but wa slain at last by hector.

so thei were war round the well-timber ship, but patroklo drew
near achil, shepherd of the host, and he shed warm tear, even as a
fountain of dark water that down a steep cliff pour it cloudi stream.
and nobl swift-foot achil when he beheld him wa griev for hi
sake, and accost him, and spake wing word, sai: "wherefor
weepest thou, patroklo, like a fond littl maid, that run by her
mother's side, and bid her mother take her up, snatch at her gown,
and hinder her in her go, and tearfulli look at her, till the
mother take her up? like her, patroklo, dost thou let fall soft tear.
hast thou aught to tell to the myrmidon, or to me myself, or is it some
tide out of phthia that thou alon hast beard? or dost thou lament
for the sake of the argiv,--how thei perish by the hollow ship
through their own transgress? speak out, and hide it not within thy
spirit, that we mai both know all."

but with a heavi groan didst thou speak unto him, o knight patroklo: "o
achil, son of peleu, far the bravest of the achaian, be not wroth,
see that so great calam ha beset the achaian. for verili all of
them that aforetim were the best ar ly among the ship, smitten and
wound. smitten is the son of tydeu, strong diomed, and wound is
odysseu, spearman renown, and agamemnon; and smitten is eurypylo on
the thigh with an arrow. and about them the leech skill in medicin
ar busi, heal their wound, but thou art hard to reconcil,
achil. never then mai such wrath take hold of me as that thou
nursest; thou brave to the hurt of other. what other men later born
shall have profit of thee, if thou dost not ward off base ruin from the
argiv? pitiless that thou art, the knight peleu wa not then thy
father, nor theti thy mother, but the grei sea bare thee, and the sheer
cliff, so untoward is thy spirit. but if in thy heart thou art shun
some oracl, and thy ladi mother hath told thee somewhat from zeu, yet
me do thou send forth quickli, and make the rest of the host of the
myrmidon follow me, if yet ani light mai aris from me to the danaan.
and give me thy har to buckl about my shoulder, if perchanc the
trojan mai take me for thee, and so abstain from battl, and the
warlik son of the achaian mai take breath, weari as thei be, for
brief is the breath in war. and lightli might we that ar fresh drive
men weari with the battl back to the citadel, awai from the ship and
the hut."

so he spake and besought him, in hi unwitting, for truli it wa to
be hi own evil death and fate that he prai for. then to him in great
heavi spake swift-foot achil: "ah me, patroklo of the seed of
zeu, what word hast thou spoken? neither take i heed of ani oracl that
i wot of, nor yet ha my ladi mother told me somewhat from zeu, but
thi dread sorrow come upon my heart and spirit, from the hour that a
man wish to rob me who am hi equal, and to take awai my prize, for
that he excel me in power. a dread sorrow to me is thi, after all the
toil that my heart hath endur. the maiden that the son of the
achaian chose out for me as my prize, and that i won with my spear when
i sack a well-wall citi, her ha mighti agamemnon the son of atreu
taken back out of my hand, as though i were but some sojourn
dishonour. but we will let bygon be bygon. no man mai be angri
of heart for ever, yet verili i said that i would not ceas from my
wrath, until that time when to mine own ship should come the war-cry
and the battl. but do thou on thy shoulder my famou har, and lead
the war-love myrmidon to the fight, to ward off destruct from the
ship, lest thei even burn the ship with blaze fire, and take awai
our desir return. but when thou hast driven them from the ship,
return, and even if the loud-thunder lord of hera grant thee to win
glori, yet long not thou apart from me to fight with the war-love
trojan; therebi wilt thou minish mine honour. neither do thou, exult
in war and strife, and slai the trojan, lead on toward ilio, lest
on of the etern god from olympu come against thee; right dearli
doth apollo the far-darter love them. nai, return back when thou halt
brought safeti to the ship, and suffer the rest to fight along the
plain. for would, o father zeu, and athen, and apollo, would that not
on of all the trojan might escap death, nor on of the argiv, but
that we twain might avoid destruct, that alon we might undo the
sacr coron of troi."

so spake thei each to other, but aia no longer abod the onset, for he
wa overpow by dart; the counsel of zeu wa subdu him, and the
shaft of the proud trojan; and hi bright helmet, be smitten, kept
ring terribl about hi templ: for alwai it wa smitten upon the
fair-wrought cheek-piec. moreov hi left shoulder wa weari, as
steadfastli he held up hi glitter shield, nor yet could thei make
him give ground, as thei press on with their dart around him. and
ever he wa worn out with difficult breath, and much sweat kept run
from all hi limb, nor had he a moment to draw breath, so on all side
wa evil heap on evil.

tell me now, ye muse that have mansion in olympu, how first fire fell
on the ship of the achaian. hector drew near, and the ashen spear of
aia he smote with hi great sword, hard by the socket, behind the
point, and shore it clean awai, and the son of telamon brandish in hi
hand no more than a pointless spear, and far from him the head of bronz
fell ring on the ground.

and aia knew in hi nobl heart, and shudder at the deed of the
god, even how zeu that thundereth on high did utterli cut off from him
avail in war, and desir victori for the trojan. then aia gave back
out of the dart. but the trojan cast on the swift ship unweari
fire, and instantli the inextinguish flame stream over her: so the
fire begirt the stern, whereon achil smote hi thigh, and spake to
patroklo: "aris, patroklo of the seed of zeu, command of the
horsemen, for truli i see by the ship the rush of the consum fire.
up then, lest thei take the ship, and there be no more retreat; do on
thy har speedili, and i will summon the host."

so spake he, while patroklo wa har him in shine bronz. hi
goodli greav, fit with silver clasp, he first girt round hi leg,
and next did on around hi breast the well-dight starri corslet of the
swift-foot son of aiako. and round hi shoulder he cast a sword of
bronz, with stud of silver, and next took the great and mighti shield,
and on hi proud head set a well-wrought helm with a hors-hair crest,
and terribl nod the crest from abov. then seiz he two strong
lanc that fit hi grasp, onli he took not the spear of the nobl
son of aiako, heavi, and huge, and stalwart, that none other of the
achaian could wield. and patroklo bade automedon to yoke the hors
speedili, even automedon whom most he honour after achil, the
breaker of the rank of men, and whom he held trustiest in battl to
abid hi call. and for him automedon led beneath the yoke the swift
hors, xantho and balio, that fly as swift as the wind, the hors
that the harpi podarg bare to the west wind, as she graze on the
meadow by the stream of okeano. and in the side-trace he put the
goodli pedaso, that achil carri awai, when he took the citi of
eetion; and be but a mortal steed, he follow with the immort
hors.

meanwhil achil went and har all the myrmidon in the hut with
armour, and thei gather like raven wolv with strength in their
heart unspeak. and among them all stood warlik achil urg on
the hors and the target. and he arous the heart and valour of
each of them, and the rank were yet the closer serri when thei heard
the princ. and as when a man build the wall of a high hous with
close-set stone, to avoid the might of the wind, even so close were
arrai the helmet and bossi shield, and shield press on shield,
helm on helm, and man on man, and the hors-hair crest on the bright
helmet-ridg touch each other when thei nod, so close thei stood
by each other.

and straightwai thei pour forth like wasp that have their dwell by
the waysid, and that boi ar ever wont to vex, alwai torment them
in their nest besid the wai in childish sport, and a common evil thei
make for mani. with heart and spirit like their the myrmidon pour
out now from the ship, and a cry aros unquench, and patroklo
call on hi comrad, shout aloud: "myrmidon, ye comrad of
achil son of peleu, be men, my friend, and be mind of your
impetu valour, that so we mai win honour for the son of peleu, that
is far the bravest of the argiv by the ship, and whose close-fight
squir ar the best. and let wide-rule agamemnon the son of atreu
learn hi own blind of heart, in that he noth honour the best
of the achaian."

so spake he, and arous each man's heart and courag, and all in a mass
thei fell on the trojan, and the ship around echo wondrous to the
cry of the achaian. but when the trojan beheld the strong son of
menoitio, himself and hi squir, shine in their armour, the heart
wa stir in all of them, and the compani waver, for thei deem
that by the ship the swift-foot son of peleu had cast awai hi
wrath, and chosen reconcil: then each man glanc round, to see
where he might flee sheer destruct.

but patroklo first with a shine spear cast straight into the press,
where most men were throng, even by the stern of the ship of
great-heart protesilao, and he smote pyraichm, who led hi paionian
horsemen out of amydon, from the wide water of axio; him he smote on
the right shoulder, and he fell on hi back in the dust with a groan,
and hi comrad around him, the paionian, were afraid, for patroklo
sent fear among them all, when he slew their leader that wa ever the
best in fight. then he drove them out from the ship, and quench the
burn fire. and the half-burnt ship wa left there, and the trojan
fled, with a marvel din, and the danaan pour in among the hollow
ship, and ceaseless wa the shout. and as when from the high crest
of a great hill zeu, the gather of the lightn, hath stir a
dens cloud, and forth shine all the peak, and sharp promontori, and
glade, and from heaven the infinit air break open, even so the
danaan, have driven the blaze fire from the ship, for a littl
while took breath, but there wa no paus in the battl. for not yet
were the trojan driven in utter rout by the achaian, dear to ar,
from the black ship, but thei still stood up against them, and onli
perforc gave ground from the ship. but even as robber wolv fall on
the lamb or kid, choos them out of the herd, when thei ar
scatter on hill by the witless of the shepherd, and the wolv
behold it, and speedili harri the youngl that have no heart of
courag,--even so the danaan fell on the trojan, and thei were mind
of ill-sound flight, and forgot their impetu valour.

but that great aia ever wa fain to cast hi spear at hector of the
helm of bronz, but he, in hi cun of war, cover hi broad
shoulder with hi shield of bull' hide, and watch the hurtl of
the arrow, and the nois of spear. and verili well he knew the chang
in the masteri of war, but even so he abod, and wa strive to rescu
hi trusti comrad.

and as when from olympu a cloud fare into heaven, from the sacr air,
when zeu spreadeth forth the tempest, even so from the ship came the
war-cry and the rout, nor in order due did thei cross the ditch again.
but hi swift-foot hors bare hector forth with hi arm, and he left
the host of troi, whom the delv trench restrain against their will.
and in the trench did mani swift steed that draw the car break the
fore-part of the pole, and leav the chariot of their master.

but patroklo follow after, cry fierc to the danaan, and full
of evil will against the trojan, while thei with cri and flight
fill all the wai, for thei were scatter, and on high the storm of
dust wa scatter below the cloud, and the whole-hoov hors
strain back toward the citi, awai from the ship and the hut.

but even where patroklo saw the folk thickest in the rout, thither did
he guid hi hors with a cry, and under hi axl-tree men fell prone
from their chariot, and the car were overturn with a din of
shatter. but straight over the ditch, in forward flight, leap the
swift hors. and the heart of patroklo urg him against hector, for
he wa eager to smite him, but hi swift steed bore hector forth and
awai. and even as beneath a tempest the whole black earth is oppress,
on an autumn dai, when zeu pour forth rain most vehement, and all
the river run full, and mani a scaur the torrent tear awai, and down
to the dark sea thei rush headlong from the hill, roar mightili, and
minish ar the work of men, even so mighti wa the roar of the trojan
hors as thei ran.

now patroklo when he had cloven the nearest compani, drave them
backward again to the ship, nor suffer them to approach the citi,
despit their desir, but between the ship, and the river, and the
lofti wall, he rush on them, and slew them, and aveng mani a comrad
slain. there first he smote pronoo with a shine spear, where the
shield left bare the breast, and loosen hi limb, and he fell with a
crash. then thestor the son of enop he next assail, as he sat
crouch in the polish chariot, for he wa struck distraught, and the
rein flew from hi hand. him he drew near, and smote with the lanc on
the right jaw, and clean pierc through hi teeth. and patroklo caught
hold of the spear and drag him over the rim of the car, as when a man
sit on a jut rock, and drag a sacr fish forth from the sea, with
line and glitter hook of bronz; so on the bright spear drag he
thestor gape from the chariot, and cast him down on hi face and life
left him as he fell. next, as euryalo came on, he smote him on the
midst of the head with a stone, and all hi head wa shatter within
the strong helmet, and prone on the earth he fell, and death that
slayeth the spirit overwhelm him. next eryma, and amphotero, and
epalt and tlepolemo son of damastor, and echio and pyri, and ipheu
and euippo, and polymelo son of argea, all these in turn he brought
low to the bounteou earth. but when sarpedon beheld hi comrad with
ungirdl doublet, subdu beneath the hand of patroklo son of
menoitio, he cri aloud, upbraid the godlik lykian: "shame, ye
lykian, whither do ye flee? now be ye strong, for i will encount thi
man that i mai know who he is that conquer here, and verili mani evil
hath he wrought the trojan, in that he hath loosen the knee of mani
men and nobl."

so spake he, and leap with hi arm from the chariot to the ground.
but patroklo, on the other side, when he beheld him leap from hi
chariot. and thei, like vultur of crook talon and curv beak,
that war with loud yell on some high cliff, even so thei rush with
cri against each other. and behold then the son of krono of the
crook counsel took piti on them, and he spake to hera, hi sister and
wife: "ah woe is me for that it is fate that sarpedon, the best-belov
of men to me, shall be subdu under patroklo son of menoitio. and in
two wai my heart within my breast is divid, as i ponder whether i
should catch him up aliv out of the tear war, and set him down in
the rich land of lykia, or whether i should now subdu him beneath the
hand of the son of menoitio."

then the ox-ei ladi hera made answer to him: "most dread son of
krono, what word is thi thou hast spoken? a mortal man long doom to
fate dost thou desir to deliv again from death of evil name? work thy
will, but all we other god will in no wise prais thee. and anoth
thing i will tell thee, and do thou lai it up in thy heart; if thou dost
send sarpedon live to hi own hous, consid lest thereon some other
god likewis desir to send hi own dear son awai out of the strong
battl. for round the great citadel of priam war mani son of the
immort, and among the immort wilt thou send terribl wrath. but if
he be dear to thee, and thy heart mourn for him, truli then suffer him
to be subdu in the strong battl beneath the hand of patroklo son of
menoitio, but when hi soul and life leav that warrior, send death and
sweet sleep to bear him, even till thei come to the land of wide lykia,
there will hi kindr and friend buri him, with a barrow and a pillar,
for thi is the due of the dead."

so spake she, nor did the father of god and men disregard her. but he
shed bloodi raindrop on the earth, honour hi dear son, that
patroklo wa about to slai in the deep-soil land of troia, far off
from hi own countri. now when thei were come near each other in onset,
there verili did patroklo smite the renown thrasymelo, the good
squir of the princ sarpedon, on the lower part of the belli, and
loosen hi limb. but sarpedon miss him with hi shine javelin, as
he in turn rush on, but wound the hors pedaso on the right
shoulder with the spear, and he shriek as he breath hi life awai,
and fell cry in the dust, and hi spirit fled from him. but the other
twain rear thi wai and that, and the yoke creak, and the rein were
confus on them, when their trace-hors lai in the dust. but thereof
did automedon, the spearman renown, find a remedi, and draw hi
long-edg sword from hi stout thigh, he leap forth, and cut adrift
the hors, with no delai, and the pair right themselv, and strain
in the rein, and thei met again in life-devour war.

then again sarpedon miss with hi shine dart, and the point of the
spear flew over the left shoulder of patroklo and smote him not, but he
in turn aros with the bronz, and hi javelin flew not vainli from hi
hand, but struck sarpedon even where the midriff clasp the beat
heart. and he fell as fall an oak, or a silver poplar, or a slim pine
tree, that on the hill the shipwright fell with whet ax, to be
timber for ship-build; even so befor the hors and chariot he lai
at length, moan aloud, and clutch at the bloodi dust. and as when
a lion hath fallen on a herd, and slain a bull, tawni and high of heart,
among the kine of trail gait, and he perish groan beneath the
claw of the lion, even so under patroklo did the leader of the lykian
shieldmen rage, even in death, and he call to hi dear comrad: "dear
glauko, warrior among warlik men, now most doth it behov thee to be a
spearman, and a hardi fighter: now let bane war be dear to thee, if
inde thou art a man of might. first fare all about and urg on the
hero that be leader of the lykian, to fight for sarpedon, and
thereaft thyself do battl for me with the sword. for to thee even in
time to come shall i be shame and disgrac for ever, all thy dai, if
the achaian strip me of mine armour, fallen in the gather of the
ship. nai, hold out manfulli, and spur on all the host."

even as he spake thu, the end of death veil over hi ey and hi
nostril, but patroklo, set foot on hi breast drew the spear out
of hi flesh, and the midriff follow with the spear, so that he drew
forth togeth the spear point, and the soul of sarpedon; and the
myrmidon held there hi pant steed, eager to fly afar, sinc the
chariot wa reft of it lord.

then dread sorrow came on glauko, when he heard the voic of sarpedon,
and hi heart wa stir, that he avail not to succour him. and with
hi hand he caught and held hi arm, for the wound gall him, the wound
of the arrow wherewith, as he press on toward the lofti wall, teukro
had smitten him, ward off destruct from hi fellow. then in
prayer spake glauko to far-dart apollo: "hear, o princ that art
somewher in the rich land of lykia, or in troia, for thou canst listen
everywher to the man that is in need, as even now need cometh upon me.
for i have thi stark wound, and mine arm is thoroughli pierc with
sharp pain, nor can my blood be stanch, and by the wound is my
shoulder burden, and i cannot hold my spear firm, nor go and fight
against the enemi. and the best of men ha perish, sarpedon, the son
of zeu, and he succour not even hi own child. but do thou, o princ,
heal me thi stark wound, and lull my pain, and give me strength, that
i mai call on my lykian kinsmen, and spur them to the war, and myself
mai fight about the dead man fallen."

so spake he in hi prayer, and phoebu apollo heard him.  straightwai he
made hi pain to ceas, and in the grievou wound stanch the black
blood, and put courag into hi heart. and glauko knew it within him,
and wa glad, for that the great god speedili heard hi prayer. first
went he all about and urg on them that were leader of the lykian to
fight around sarpedon, and thereaft he went with long stride among
the trojan, to polydama son of panthoo and nobl agenor, and he went
after aineia, and hector of the helm of bronz, and stand by them
spake wing word: "hector, now sure art thou utterli forget of
the alli, that for thy sake, far from their friend and their own
countri, breath their live awai! but thou carest not to aid them!
sarpedon li low, the leader of the lykian shieldmen, he that defend
lykia by hi doom and hi might, yea him hath mail ar subdu
beneath the spear of patroklo. but, friend, stand by him, and be angri
in your heart lest the myrmidon strip him of hi har, and
dishonour the dead, in wrath for the sake of the danaan, even them that
perish, whom we slew with spear by the swift ship."

so spake he, and sorrow seiz the trojan utterli, ungovern and not
to be born; for sarpedon wa ever the stai of their citi, all a
stranger as he wa, for mani peopl follow with him, and himself the
best warrior of them all. then thei made straight for the danaan
eagerli, and hector led them, be wroth for sarpedon's sake. but the
fierc heart of patrokloa son of menoitio urg on the achaian. and he
spake first to the twain aiant that themselv were right eager:
"aiant, now let defenc be your desir, and be such as afor ye were
among men, or even braver yet. that man li low who first leap on to
the wall of the achaian, even sarpedon. nai, let us strive to take him,
and work hi bodi shame, and strip the har from hi shoulder, and
mani a on of hi comrad fight for hi sake let us subdu with the
pitiless bronz."

so spake he, and thei themselv were eager in defenc.  so on both
side thei strengthen the compani, trojan and lykian, myrmidon
and achaian, and thei join battl to fight around the dead man
fallen; terribl thei shout, and loud rang the har of men. and as
the din ariseth of woodcutt in the glade of a mountain, and the
sound thereof is heard far awai, so rose the din of them from the
wide-wai earth, the nois of bronz and of well-tan bull' hide
smitten with sword and doubl-point spear. and now not even a
clear-sight man could ani longer have known nobl sarpedon, for with
dart and blood and dust wa he cover wholli from head to foot. and
ever men throng about the dead, as in a stead fli buzz around the
full milk-pail, in the season of spring, when the milk drench the
bowl, even so throng thei about the dead. nor ever did zeu turn from
the strong fight hi shine ey, but ever look down on them, and
much in hi heart he debat of the slai of patroklo, whether there
and then abov divin sarpedon gloriou hector should slai him likewis
in strong battl with the sword, and strip hi har from hi
shoulder, or whether to more men yet he should deal sheer labour of
war. and thu to him as he ponder it seem the better wai, that the
gallant squir of achil, peleu' son, should straightwai drive the
trojan and hector of the helm of bronz toward the citi, and should
rob mani of their life. and in hector first he put a weakl heart, and
leap into hi car hector turn in flight, and cri on the rest of
the trojan to flee, for he knew the turn of the sacr scale of
zeu. thereon neither did the strong lykian abid, but fled all in
fear, when thei beheld their king stricken to the heart, ly in the
compani of the dead, for mani had fallen abov him, when kronion made
fierc the fight. then the other strip from the shoulder of
sarpedon hi shine arm of bronz, and these the strong son of
menoitio gave to hi comrad to bear to the hollow ship. then zeu
that gathereth the cloud spake to apollo: "prithe, dear phoebu, go
take sarpedon out of rang of dart, and cleans the black blood from
him, and thereaft bear him far awai, and bath him in the stream of
the river, and anoint him with ambrosia, and cloth him in garment that
wax not old, and send him to be waft by fleet convoi, by the twin
brethren sleep and death, that quickli will set him in the rich land of
wide lykia. there will hi kinsmen and clansmen give him burial, with
barrow and pillar, for such is the due of the dead."

so spake he, nor wa apollo disobedi to hi father. he went down the
hill of ida to the dread battl din, and straight wai bore goodli
sarpedon out of the dart, and carri him far awai and bath him in
the stream of the river, and anoint him with ambrosia, and clad him
in garment that wax not old, and sent him to be waft by fleet convoi,
the twin brethren sleep and death, that swiftli set him down in the rich
land of wide lykia. but patroklo cri to hi hors and automedon, and
after the trojan and lykian went he, and so wa blindli forget, in
hi witless, for if he had kept the sai of the son of peleu,
verili he should have escap the evil fate of black death. but ever is
the wit of zeu stronger than the wit of men, so now he rous the
spirit of patroklo in hi breast. there whom first, whom last didst
thou slai, patroklo, when the god call thee deathward? adresto
first, and autonoo, and echeklo, and perimo, son of mega, and
epistor, and melanippo, and thereaft elaso, and moulio, and
pylart; these he slew, but the other were each man of them fain of
flight. then would the son of the achaian have taken high-gate troi,
by the hand of patroklo, for around and befor him he rage with the
spear, but that phoebu apollo stood on the well-build wall, with
bane thought toward patroklo, and succour the trojan. thrice
clomb patroklo on the corner of the lofti wall, and thrice did apollo
forc him back and smote the shine shield with hi immort hand. but
when for the fourth time he came on like a god, then cri far-dart
apollo terribl, and spake wing word: "give back, patroklo of the
seed of zeu! not beneath thy spear is it fate that the citi of the
valiant trojan shall fall, nai nor beneath achil, a man far better
than thou."

so spake he, and patroklo retreat far back, avoid the wrath of
far-dart apollo. but hector within the skaian gate wa restrain
hi whole-hoov hors, ponder whether he should drive again into
the din and fight, or should call unto the host to gather to the wall.
while thu he wa think, phoebu apollo stood by him in the guis of
a young man and a strong, asio, who wa the mother's brother of
hors-tame hector, be own brother of hekab, and son of dyma, who
dwelt in phrygia, on the stream of sangario. in hi guis spake
apollo, son of zeu, to hector: "hector, wherefor dost thou ceas from
fight? it doth not behov thee. would that i were as much stronger than
thou as i am weaker, thereon quickli shouldst thou stand aloof from war
to thy hurt. but come, turn against patroklo thy strong-hoov hors,
if perchanc thou mayst slai him, and apollo give thee glori."

so spake the god, and went back again into the moil of men. but renown
hector bade wise-heart kebrion to lash hi hors into the war. then
apollo went and pass into the press, and sent a dread panic among the
argiv, but to the trojan and hector gave he renown. and hector let
the other argiv be, and slew none of them, but against patroklo he
turn hi strong-hoov hors, and patroklo on the other side leap
from hi chariot to the ground, with a spear in hi left hand, and in
hi other hand grasp a shine jag stone, that hi hand cover.
firmli he plant himself and hurl it, nor long did he shrink from hi
foe, nor wa hi cast in vain, but he struck kebrion the chariot of
hector, the bastard son of renown priam, on the brow with the sharp
stone, as he held the rein of the hors. both hi brow the stone
drave togeth, and hi bone held not, but hi ey fell to the ground
in the dust, there, in front of hi feet. then he, like a diver, fell
from the well-wrought car, and hi spirit left hi bone. then taunt
him didst thou address him, knightli patroklo: "out on it, how nimbl a
man, how lightli he diveth! yea, if perchanc he were on the teem
deep, thi man would satisfi mani by seek for oyster, leap from
the ship, even if it were stormi weather, so lightli now he diveth from
the chariot into the plain. verili among the trojan too there be dive
men."

so speak he set on the hero kebrion with the rush of a lion, that
while wast the cattl-pen is smitten in the breast, and hi own
valour is hi bane, even so against kebrion, patroklo, didst thou
leap furious. but hector, on the other side, leap from hi chariot
to the ground. and these twain strove for kebrion like lion, that on
the mountain peak fight, both hunger, both high of heart, for a
slain hind. even so for kebrion' sake these two master of the
war-cry, patroklo son of menoitio, and renown hector, were eager
each to hew the other's flesh with the ruthless bronz.

hector then seiz him by the head, and slacken not hold, while
patroklo on the other side grasp him by the foot, and thereon the
other, trojan and danaan, join strong battl. and as the east wind
and the south contend with on anoth in shake a deep wood in the
dell of a mountain, shake beech, and ash, and smooth-bark cornel
tree, that clash against each other their long bough with marvel
din, and a nois of branch broken, so the trojan and achaian were
leap on each other and slai, nor had either side ani thought of
ruinou flight. and mani sharp dart were fix around kebrion, and
wing arrow leap from the bow-string, and mani mighti stone smote
the shield of them that fought around him. but he in the whirl of dust
lai mighti and mightili fallen, forget of hi chivalri.

now while the sun wa go about mid-heaven, so long the dart smote
either side, and the host fell, but when the sun turn to the time of
the loos of oxen, lo, then beyond their doom the achaian prove the
better. the hero kebrion drew thei forth from the dart, out of the
tumult of the trojan, and strip the har from hi shoulder, and
with ill design against the trojan, patroklo rush upon them. three
time then rush he on, peer of swift ar, shout terribl, and
thrice he slew nine men. but when the fourth time he sped on like a god,
thereon to thee, patroklo, did the end of life appear, for phoebu met
thee in the strong battl, in dread wise. and patroklo wa not ware
of him come through the press, for hidden in thick mist did he meet
him, and stood behind him, and smote hi back and broad shoulder with a
down-stroke of hi hand, and hi ey were daze. and from hi head
phoebu apollo smote the helmet that roll rattl awai with a din
beneath the hoov of the hors, the helm with upright socket, and the
crest were defil with blood and dust. and all the long-shadow spear
wa shatter in the hand of patroklo, the spear great and heavi and
strong, and sharp, while from hi shoulder the tassel shield with
the baldric fell to the ground.

and the princ apollo, son of zeu, loos hi corslet, and blind
seiz hi heart and hi shine limb were unstrung, and he stood in
amaz, and at close quarter from behind a dardanian smote him on the
back, between the shoulder, with a sharp spear, even euphorbo, son of
panthoo, who excel them of hi ag in cast the spear, and in
horsemanship, and in speed of foot. even thu, verili, had he cast down
twenti men from their chariot, though then first had he come with hi
car to learn the lesson of war. he it wa that first smote a dart into
thee, knightli patroklo, nor overcam thee, but ran back again and
mingl with the throng, first draw forth from the flesh hi ashen
spear, nor did he abid the onset of patroklo, unarm as he wa, in
the strife. but patroklo, be overcom by the stroke of the god, and
by the spear, gave ground, and retreat to the host of hi comrad,
avoid fate. but hector, when he beheld great-heart patroklo give
ground, be smitten with the keen bronz, came nigh unto him through
the rank, and wound him with a spear, in the lowermost part of the
belli, and drave the bronz clean through. and he fell with a crash, and
sore griev the host of achaian. and as when a lion hath overcom in
battl an untir boar, thei twain fight with high heart on the
crest of a hill, about a littl well, and both ar desir to drink,
and the lion hath by forc overcom the boar that draweth difficult
breath; so after that he had slain mani did hector son of priam take the
life awai from the strong son of menoitio, smite him at close
quarter with the spear; and boast over him he spake wing word:
"patroklo, sure thou saidst that thou wouldst sack my town, and from
trojan women take awai the dai of freedom, and bring them in ship to
thine own dear countri: fool! nai, in front of these were the swift
hors of hector strain their speed for the fight; and myself in
wield the spear excel among the war-love trojan, even i who ward
from them the dai of destini: but thee shall vultur here devour. ah,
wretch, sure achil for all hi valour, avail thee not, who
straitli charg thee as thou camest, he abid there, sai, 'come
not to me, patroklo lord of steed, to the hollow ship, till thou hast
torn the gori doublet of man-slai hector about hi breast;' so,
sure, he spake to thee, and persuad the wit of thee in thy
witless."

then faintli didst thou answer him, knightli patroklo: "boast greatli,
as now, hector, for to thee have zeu, son of krono, and apollo given
the victori, who lightli have subdu me; for themselv strip my
har from my shoulder. but if twenti such as thou had encount
me, here had thei all perish, subdu beneath my spear. but me have
ruinou fate and the son of leto slain, and of men euphorbo, but thou
art the third in my slai. but anoth thing will i tell thee, and do
thou lai it up in thy heart: verili thou thyself art not long to live,
but alreadi doth death stand hard by thee, and strong fate, that thou
art to be subdu by the hand of nobl achil, of the seed of
aiako."

even as so he spake the end of death overshadow him. and hi soul,
fleet from hi limb, went down to the hous of hade, wail it
own doom, leav manhood and youth.

then renown hector spake to him even in hi death: "patroklo,
wherefor to me dolt thou prophesi sheer destruct? who know but that
achil, the child of fair-tress theti, will first be smitten by my
spear, and lose hi life?"

so spake he, and drew the spear of bronz from the wound, set hi
foot on the dead, and cast him off on hi back from the spear. and
straightwai with the spear he went after automedon, the godlik squir
of the swift-foot aiakid, for he wa eager to smite him; but hi
swift-foot immort hors bare him out of the battl, hors that the
god gave to peleu, a splendid gift.



book xvii.

    of the battl around the bodi of patroklo.

but atreu' son, menelao dear to ar, wa not unawar of the slai
of patroklo by the trojan in the frai. he went up through the front of
the fight har in flash bronz, and strode over the bodi as
abov a first-born calf standeth low it mother. thu abov patroklo
strode fair-hair menelao, and befor him held hi spear and the
circl of hi shield, eager to slai whoever should encount him. then
wa panthoo' son of the stout ashen spear not heedless of nobl
patroklo as he lai, and he smote on the circl of the shield of
menelao, but the bronz spear brake it not, but the point wa bent back
in the stubborn shield. and menelao atreu' son in hi turn made at him
with hi bronz spear, have prai unto father zeu, and as he gave
back pierc the nether part of hi throat, and threw hi weight into
the stroke, follow hi heavi hand; and sheer through the tender neck
went the point of the spear. and he fell with a crash, and hi armour
rang upon him. in blood wa hi hair drench that wa like unto the
hair of the grace, and hi tress close knit with band of silver
and gold.

then easili would the son of atreu have born off the nobl spoil of
panthoo' son, had not phoebu apollo grudg it to him, and arous
against him hector peer of swift ar, put on the semblanc of a
man, of ment chief of the kikon. and he spake aloud to him wing
word: "hector, now art thou hast after thing unattain, even the
hors of wise aiakid; for hard ar thei to be tame or driven by
mortal man, save onli achil whom an immort mother bare. meanwhil
hath warlik menelao atreu' son stridden over patroklo and slain the
best of the trojan there, even panthoo' son euphorbo, and hath stai
him in hi impetu might."

thu sai the god went back into the strife of men, but dire grief
darken hector inmost soul, and then he gaze searchingli along the
line, and straightwai wa awar of the on man strip off the nobl
arm, and the other ly on the earth; and blood wa flow about the
gape wound. then he went through the front of the fight har in
flash bronz, cry a shrill cry, like unto hephaisto' flame
unquench. not deaf to hi shrill cry wa atreu' son, and sore
troubl he spake to hi great heart: "ay me, if i shall leav behind me
these goodli arm, and patroklo who here lieth for my vengeanc' sake,
i fear lest some danaan behold it be wroth against me. but if for
honour's sake i do battl alon with hector and the trojan, i fear lest
thei come about me mani against on; for all the trojan is
bright-helm hector lead hither. but if i might somewher find aia
of the loud war-cry, then both togeth would we go and be mind of
battl even were it against the power of heaven, if hapli we might save
hi dead for achil peleu' son: that were best among these ill."

while thu he commun with hi mind and heart, therewith the trojan
rank came onward, and hector at their head. then menelao gave
backward, and left the dead man, turn himself ever about like a
deep-wane lion which men and dog chase from a fold with spear and
cri; and hi strong heart within him groweth chill, and loth goeth he
from the stead; so from patroklo went fair-hair menelao, and
turn and stood, when he came to the host of hi comrad, search
for mighti aia telamon's son. him veri speedili he espi on the left
of the whole battl, cheer hi comrad and rous them to fight,
for great terror had phoebu apollo sent on them; and he hast him to
run, and straightwai stood by him and said: "thi wai, belov aia; let
us bestir us for the dead patroklo, if hapli hi nake corps at least
we mai carri to achil, though hi armour is held by hector of the
glanc helm."

thu spake he, and arous the heart of wise aia. and he went up
through the front of the fight, and with him fair-hair menelao. now
hector, when he had strip from patroklo hi nobl armour, wa
drag him thenc that he might cut off the head from the shoulder
with the keen bronz and carri hi bodi to give to the dog of troi. but
aia came anigh, and the shield that he bare wa as a tower; then hector
gave back into the compani of hi comrad, and sprang into hi chariot;
and the goodli armour he gave to the trojan to carri to the citi, to be
great glori unto him. but aia spread hi broad shield over the son of
menoitio and stood as it were a lion befor hi whelp when huntsmen in
a forest encount him as he leadeth hi young. and by hi side stood
atreu' son, menelao dear to ar, nurs great sorrow in hi breast.

then hector call on the trojan with a mighti shout; "trojan and
lykian and dardanian that fight hand to hand, be men, my friend, and
bethink you of impetu valour, until i do on me the goodli arm of
nobl achil that i strip from brave patroklo when i slew him."

thu have spoken went hector of the glanc helm forth out of the
strife of war, and ran and speedili with fleet feet follow overtook
hi comrad, not yet far off, who were bear to the citi peleid'
gloriou arm. and stand apart from the dolor battl he chang
hi armour; hi own he gave the warlik trojan to carri to sacr
ilio, and he put on the divin arm of achil, peleu' son.

but when zeu that gathereth the cloud beheld from afar off hector
arm him in the armour of peleu' godlik son, he shook hi head and
spake thu unto hi soul: "ah, hapless man, no thought is in thy heart
of death that yet draweth nigh unto thee; thou doest on thee the divin
armour of a peerless man befor whom the rest have terror. hi comrad,
gentl and brave, thou hast slain, and unmeetli hast strip the armour
from hi head and shoulder; yet now for a while at least i will give
into thy hand great might, in recompens for thi, even that nowis
shalt thou come home out of the battl, for andromach to receiv from
thee peleid' gloriou arm."

thu spake the son of krono, and bow hi dark brow therewith.

but the armour fit itself unto hector bodi, and ar the dread
war-god enter into him, and hi limb were fill within with valour
and strength. then he sped among the nobl alli with a mighti cry, and
in the flash of hi armour he seem to all of them like unto peleu'
great-heart son. and he came to each and encourag him with hi
word--mesthl and glauko and medon and thersilocho and asteropaio
and deisenor and hippothoo and phorki and chromio and the augur
ennomo--these encourag he and spake to them wing word: "listen, ye
countless tribe of alli that dwell round about. it wa not for mere
number that i sought or long when i gather each of you from your
citi, but that ye might zealous guard the trojan' wive and infant
littl on from the war-love achaian. for thi end am i weari my
peopl by take gift and food from them, and nurs therebi the
courag of each of you. now therefor let all turn straight against the
foe and live or die, for such is the dallianc of war. and whoso shall
drag patroklo, dead though he be, among the hors-tame men of troi,
and make aia yield, to him will i award half the spoil and keep half
myself; so shall hi glori be great as mine."

thu spake he, and thei against the danaan charg with all their
weight, level their spear, and their heart were high of hope to
drag the corps from under aia, telamon's son. fond men! from full mani
reft he life over that corps. and then spake aia to menelao of the
loud war-cry: "dear menelao, fosterl of zeu, no longer count i that
we two of ourselv shall return home out of the war. nor have i so much
dread for the corps of patroklo, that shall soon glut the dog and
bird of the men of troi, as for thy head and mine lest some evil fall
thereon, for all is shroud by a storm-cloud of war, even by hector,
and sheer doom stareth in our face. but come, call thou to the best men
of the danaan, if hapli ani hear."

thu spake he, and menelao of the loud war-cry disregard him not, but
shout unto the danaan, cry a far-heard cry: "o friend, ye leader
and counsellor of the argiv, who by the side of the son of atreu,
agamemnon and menelao, drink at the common cost and ar all command
of the host, on whom wait glori and honour from zeu, hard is it for me
to distinguish each chief amid the press--such blaze is there of the
strife of war. but let each go forward of himself and be wroth at heart
that patroklo should becom a sport among the dog of troi."

thu spake he, and oileu' son fleet aia heard him clearli, and wa
first to run along the mellai to meet him, and after him idomeneu, and
idomeneu' brother-in-arm, merion, peer of the man-slai war-god.
and who shall of hi own thought tell the name of the rest, even of all
that after these arous the battl of the achaian?

now the trojan charg forward in close arrai, and hector led them. and
as when at the mouth of some heaven-born river a mighti wave roareth
against the stream, and arouseth the high cliff' echo as the salt sea
belloweth on the beach, so loud wa the cry wherewith the trojan came.
but the achaian stood firm around menoitio' son with on soul all,
wall in with shield of bronz. and over their bright helmet the son
of krono shed thick dark, for in the former time wa menoitio' son
not unlov of him, while he wa yet aliv and squir of aiakid. so
wa zeu loth that he should becom a prei of the dog of hi enemi at
troi, and stir hi comrad to do battl for him.

now first the trojan thrust back the glanc-ei achaian, who shrank
befor them and left the dead, yet the proud trojan slew not ani of
them with spear, though thei were fain, but set to hale the corps. but
littl while would the achaian hold back therefrom, for veri swiftli
aia ralli them, aia the first in presenc and in deed of all the
danaan after the nobl son of peleu. right through the fighter in the
forefront rush he like a wild boar in hi might that in the mountain
when he turneth at bai scattereth lightli dog and lusti young men
through the glade. thu did proud telamon's son the gloriou aia press
on the trojan battalion and lightli scatter them, as thei had bestrod
patroklo and were full fain to drag him to their citi and win renown.

then would the trojan in their turn in their weak overcom have
been driven back into ilio by the achaian dear to ar, and the
argiv would have won glori even against the appoint of zeu by
their power and might. but apollo himself arous aineia, put on
the semblanc of peripha the herald, the son of epyto, who grew old
with hi old father in hi heraldship, of friendli thought toward
aineia. in hi similitud spake apollo, son of zeu: "aineia, how
could ye ever guard high ilio if it were against the will of god? other
men have i seen that trust in their own might and power and valour, and
in their host, even though thei have scant folk to lead. but here,
albeit zeu is fainer far to give victori to us than to the danaan, yet
ye ar dismai exceedingli and fight not."

thu spake he, and aineia knew far-dart apollo when he look upon
hi face, and spake unto hector, shout loud "hector and ye other
leader of the trojan and their alli, shame were thi if in our
weak overcom we were driven back into ilio by the achaian dear to
ar. nai, thu saith a god, who standeth by my side: zeu, highest
order, is our helper in thi fight. therefor let us go right onward
against the danaan. not easili at least let them take the dead
patroklo to the ship."

thu spake he, and leapt forth far befor the fighter in the front. and
the trojan ralli and stood up against the achaian. thu strove thei
as it had been fire, nor wouldst thou have thought there wa still sun
or moon, for over all the battl where the chief stood around the slain
son of menoitio thei were shroud in dark, while the other trojan
and well-greav achaian fought at eas in the clear air, and pierc
sunlight wa spread over them, and on all the earth and hill there wa
no cloud seen; and thei ceas fight now sad again, avoid each
other's dolor dart and stand far apart. but thei who were in the
midst endur afflict of the dark and the battl, and all the
best men of them were weari by the pitiless weight of their bronz
arm.

thu all dai long wax the mighti frai of their sore strife; and
unabatingli ever with the sweat of toil were the knee and leg and feet
of each man and arm anal ey bedew as the two host did battl
around the brave squir of fleet aiakid. and as when a man giveth the
hide of a great bull to hi folk to stretch, all soak in fat, and thei
take and stretch it stand in a circl, and straightwai the moistur
thereof departeth and the fat entereth in under the hale of mani
hand, and it is all stretch throughout,--thu thei on both side
hale the dead man thi wai and that in narrow space, for their heart
were high of hope, the trojan that thei should drag him to ilio and
the achaian to the hollow ship; and around him the frai wax wild,
nor might ar rouser of host nor athen despis the sight thereof,
albeit their anger were exceed great.

such wa the grievou travail of men and hors over patroklo that zeu
on that dai wrought. but not as yet knew nobl achil aught of
patroklo' death, for far awai from the swift ship thei were fight
beneath the wall of the men of troi. therefor never deem he in hi
heart that he wa dead, but that he should come back aliv, after that
he had touch the gate; for neither that other thought had he anywis,
that patroklo should sack the stronghold without hi aid.

now the rest continu around the dead man with their keen spear made
onset relentlessli and slew each the other. and thu would on speak
among the mail-clad achaian: "friend, it were verili not gloriou for
us to go back to the hollow ship; rather let the black earth yawn for
us all beneath our feet. far better were that straightwai for us if we
suffer the hors-tame trojan to hale thi man to their citi and win
renown."

and thu on the other side would on of the great-heart trojan sai:
"friend, though it were our fate that all togeth we be slain besid
thi man, let none yet give backward from the frai."

thu would on speak, and rous the spirit of each. so thei fought on,
and the iron din went up through the high desert air unto the brazen
heaven. but the hors of aiakid that were apart from the battl were
weep, sinc first thei were awar that their chariot wa fallen in
the dust beneath the hand of man-slai hector. verili automedon,
dior' valiant son, pli them oft with blow of the swift lash, and
oft with gentl word he spake to them and oft with chide, yet would
thei neither go back to the ship at the broad hellespont nor yet to the
battl after the achaian, but as a pillar abideth firm that standeth on
the tomb of a man or woman dead, so abod thei immov with the
beauti chariot, abas their head unto the earth. and hot tear
flow from their ey to the ground as thei mourn in sorrow for their
chariot, and their rich mane were soil as thei droop from
beneath the yoke-cushion on both side besid the yoke. and when the son
of krono beheld them mourn he had compass on them, and shook hi
head and spake to hi own heart: "ah, hapless pair, why gave we you to
king peleu, a mortal man, while ye ar deathless and ever young? wa it
that ye should suffer sorrow among ill-fate men? for methinketh there
is noth more piteou than a man among all thing that breath and
creep upon the earth. but verili hector priam's son shall not drive you
and your deftli-wrought car; that will i not suffer. is it a small thing
that he holdeth the armour and vaunteth himself vainli thereupon? nai, i
will put courag into your knee and heart that ye mai bring automedon
also safe out of the war to the hollow ship. for yet further will i
increas victori to the men of troi, so that thei slai until thei come
unto the well-timber ship, and the sun set and divin night come
down."

thu sai he breath good courag into the hors. and thei shook to
earth the dust from their mane, and lightli bare the swift car amid
trojan and achaian. and behind them fought automedon, albeit in grief
for hi comrad, swoop with hi chariot as a vultur on wild gees;
for lightli he would flee out of the onset of the trojan and lightli
charg, pursu them through the thick mellai. yet could he not slai
ani man as he halt to pursu them, for it wa imposs that be
alon in hi sacr car he should at onc assail them with the spear and
hold hi fleet hors. then at last espi him a comrad, even alkimedon
son of laerk, son of haimon, and he halt behind the car and spake
unto automedon: "automedon, what god hath put into thy breast
unprofit counsel and taken from thee wisdom, that thu alon thou
art fight against the trojan in the forefront of the press? thy
comrad even now wa slain, and hector goeth proudli, wear on hi own
shoulder the armour of aiakid."

and automedon son of dior answer him, sai: "alkimedon, what other
achaian hath like skill to guid the spirit of immort steed, save
onli patroklo, peer of god in counsel, while he yet live? but now
have death and fate overtaken him. but take thou the lash and shine
rein, and i will get me down from my hors, that i mai fight."

thu spake he, and alkimedon leapt on the fleet war-chariot and swiftli
took the lash and rein in hi hand, and automedon leapt down. and
nobl hector espi them, and straightwai spake unto aineia as he stood
near: "aineia, counsellor of mail-clad trojan, i espi here the two
hors of fleet aiakid come forth to battl with feebl chariot.
therefor might i hope to take them if thou in thy heart art will,
sinc thei would not abid our onset and stand to do battl against us."

thu spake he, and the brave son of anchis disregard him not. and
thei twain went right onward, their shoulder shield by ox-hide dri
and tough, and bronz thick overlaid. and with them went both chromio
and godlik areto, and their heart were of high hope to slai the men
and drive off the strong-neck hors--fond hope, for not without blood
lost were thei to get them back from automedon. he prai to father
zeu wa fill in hi inmost heart with valour and strength. and
straightwai he spake to alkimedon, hi faith comrad: "alkimedon,
hold the hors not far from me, but with their veri breath upon my
back; for i deem that hector the son of priam will not refrain him from
hi furi until he mount behind achil' hors of goodli mane after
slai us twain, and dismai the rank of argiv men, or els himself
fall among the foremost."

thu said he, and call upon the aiant and menelao: "aiant,
leader of the argiv, and menelao, lo now, commit ye the corps unto
whoso mai best avail to bestrid it and resist the rank of men, and
come ye to ward the dai of doom from us who ar yet aliv, for here in
the dolor war ar hector and aineia, the best men of the trojan,
press hard. yet verili these issu lie in the lap of the god: i too
will cast my spear, and the rest shall zeu decid."

he said, and pois hi far-shadow spear and hurl it, and smote on
the circl of the shield of areto, and the shield sustain not the
spear, but right through went the bronz, and he forc it into hi
belli low down through hi belt. and as when a strong man with a sharp
ax smite behind the horn of an ox of the homestead cleaveth the
sinew asund, and the ox leapeth forward and falleth, so leapt areto
forward and fell on hi back; and the spear in hi entrail veri
piercingli quiver unstrung hi limb. and hector hurl at automedon
with hi bright spear, but he look steadfastli on the bronz javelin
as it came at him and avoid it, for he stoop forward, and the long
spear fix itself in the ground behind, and the javelin-butt quiver,
and there dread ar took awai it forc. and then had thei lash at
each other with their sword hand to hand, had not the aiant part
them in their furi, when thei were come through the mellai at their
comrad' call. befor them hector and aineia and godlik chromio
shrank backward and gave ground and left areto wound to the death as
he lai. and automedon, peer of swift ar, strip off the armour of
the dead, and spake exultingli: "verili, i have a littl eas my heart
of grief for the death of menoitio' son, albeit a wors man than him
have i slain."

thu sai he took up the gori spoil and set them in hi car, and gat
him thereon, with feet and hand all bloodi, as a lion that hath
devour a bull.

now great-heart aia and menelao were awar of zeu how he gave the
trojan their turn to victori. first of these to speak wa great aia
son of telamon: "ay me, now mai ani man, even though he be a veri fool,
know that father zeu himself is help the trojan. come, let us
ourselv devis some excel mean, that we mai both hale the corps
awai and ourselv return home to the joi of our friend, who griev as
thei look hitherward and deem that no longer shall the furi of
man-slai hector's unapproach hand refrain itself, but fall upon
the black ship. and would there were some comrad to carri tide with
all speed unto the son of peleu, sinc i deem that he hath not even
heard the grievou tide, how hi dear comrad is slain. but nowher
can i behold such an on among the achaian, for themselv and their
hors likewis ar wrap in dark. o father zeu, deliv thou the
son of the achaian from the dark, and make clear sky and vouchsaf
sight unto our ey. in the light be it that thou slayest us, sinc it
is thy good pleasur that we die."

then fair-hair menelao depart glanc everywhith, as an eagl
which men sai hath keenest sight of all bird under heaven, and though
he be far aloft the fleet-foot hare eludeth him not by crouch
beneath a leafi bush, but the eagl swoopeth thereon and swiftli seizeth
her and taketh her life. thu in that hour, menelao fosterl of zeu,
rang thy shine ey everywhith through the multitud of the host
of thy comrad, if hapli thei might behold nestor's son yet aliv. him
quickli he perceiv at the left of the whole battl, hearten hi
comrad and rous them to fight. and fair-hair menelao came and
stood nigh and said unto him: "antilocho, fosterl of zeu, come
hither that thou mayest learn woful tide--would it had never been.
er now, i ween, thou too hast known by thy behold that god rolleth
mischief upon the danaan, and with the trojan is victori. and slain is
the best man of the achaian, patroklo, and great sorrow is wrought for
the danaan. but run thou to the ship of the achaian and quickli tell
thi to achil, if hapli he mai straightwai rescu to hi ship the
nake corps: but hi armour is held by hector of the glanc helmet."

thu spake he, and antilocho had horror of the word he heard. and long
time speechless possess him, and hi ey were fill with tear,
and hi full voic choke. yet for all thi disregard he not the
bid of menelao, but set him to run, when he had given hi armour to
a nobl comrad, laodoko, who close anigh him wa wheel hi
whole-hoov hors.

so him hi feet bare out of the battl weep, to achil son of
peleu carri an evil tale. but thy heart, menelao fosterl of
zeu, chose not to stai to aid the weari comrad from whom antilocho
depart, and great sorrow wa among the pylian. but to them menelao
sent nobl thrasymed, and himself went again to bestrid the hero
patroklo. and he hast and stood besid the aiant and straightwai
spake to them: "so have i sent that man to the swift ship to go to
fleet-foot achil. yet deem i not that he will now come, for all hi
wrath against nobl hector, for he could not fight unarm against the
men of troi. but let us ourselv devis some excel mean, both how
we mai hale the dead awai, and how we ourselv mai escap death and
fate amid the trojan' battl-cry."

then answer him great aia telamon's son, sai: "all thi hast thou
said well, most nobl menelao. but do thou and merion put your
shoulder beneath the dead and lift him and bear him swiftli out of the
frai, while we twain behind you shall do battl with the trojan and
nobl hector, on in heart as we ar in name, for from of old time we
ar wont to await fierc battl side by side."

thu spake he, and the other took the dead man in their arm and lift
him mightili on high. but the trojan host behind cri aloud when thei
saw the achaian lift the corps, and charg like hound that spring
in front of hunter-youth upon a wound wild boar, and for a while run
in hast to rend him, but when he wheeleth round among them, trust in
hi might, then thei give ground and shrink back here and there. thu
for a while the trojan press on with all their power, strike with
sword and doubl-head spear, but when the aiant turn about and
halt over against them, then thei chang colour, and none dare
farther onset to do battl around the dead.



book xviii.

    how achil griev for patroklo, and how theti ask for
    him new armour of hephaisto; and of the make of the
    armour.

thu fought the rest in the like of blaze fire, while to achil
came antilocho, a messeng fleet of foot. him found he in front of hi
ship of upright horn, bode in hi soul the thing which even now
were accomplish. and sore troubl he spake to hi great heart: "ay
me, wherefor again ar the flow-hair achaian flock to the
ship and fly in rout over the plain? mai the god not have wrought
against me the grievou fear at my heart, even as my mother reveal
and told me that while i am yet aliv the best man of the myrmidon must
by deed of the men of troi forsak the light of the sun. sure now must
menoitio' valiant son be dead--foolhardi! sure i bade him when he
should have beaten off the fire of the foe to come back to the ship nor
with hector fight amain."

while thu he held debat in hi heart and soul, there drew nigh unto
him nobl nestor's son, shed hot tear, and spake hi grievou
tide: "ay me, wise peleu' son, veri bitter tide must thou hear,
such as i would had never been. fallen is patroklo, and thei ar
fight around hi bodi, nake, for hi armour is held by hector of the
glanc helm."

thu spake he, and a black cloud of grief enwrap achil, and with
both hand he took dark dust and pour it over hi head and defil hi
come face, and on hi fragrant doublet black ash fell. and himself
in the dust lai mighti and mightili fallen, and with hi own hand tore
and mar hi hair. and the handmaiden, whom achil and patroklo
took captiv, cri aloud in the grief of their heart, and ran forth
around valiant achil, and all beat on their breast with their hand,
and the knee of each of them were unstrung. and antilocho on the other
side wail and shed tear, hold achil' hand while he groan in
hi nobl heart, for he fear lest he should cleav hi throat with the
sword. then terribl moan achil; and hi ladi mother heard him as
she sate in the depth of the sea besid her ancient sire. and thereon
she utter a cry, and the goddess flock around her, all the
daughter of nereu that were in the deep of the sea. with these the
bright cave wa fill, and thei all beat togeth on their breast, and
theti led the lament: "listen, sister nereid, that ye all hear and
know well what sorrow ar in my heart. ay me unhappi, ay me that bare
to my sorrow the first of men! for after i had born a son nobl and
strong, the chief of hero, and he shot up like a young branch, then
when i had rear him as a plant in a veri fruit field i sent him in
beak ship to ilio to fight against the men of troi; but never again
shall i welcom him back to hi home, to the hous of peleu. and while
he yet liveth in my sight and beholdeth the light of the sun, he
sorroweth, neither can i help him ani whit though i go unto him. but i
will go, that i mai look upon my dear child, and learn what sorrow hath
come to him though he abid aloof from the war."

thu spake she and left the cave; and the nymph went with her weep,
and around them the surg of the sea wa sunder. and when thei came to
deep-soil troi-land thei went up upon the shore in order, where the
ship of the myrmidon were drawn up thickli around fleet achil. and
as he groan heavili hi ladi mother stood besid him, and with a
shrill cry clasp the bead of her child, and spake unto him wing
word of lament: "my child, why weepest thou? what sorrow hath come
to thy heart? tell it forth, hide it not. on thing at least hath been
accomplish of zeu accord to the prayer thou madest, hold up to
him thy hand, that the son of the achaian should all be pent in at
the ship, through lack of thee, and should suffer hate thing."

then groan heavili spake unto her achil fleet of foot: "my mother,
that prayer truli hath the olympian accomplish for me. but what
delight have i therein, sinc my dear comrad is dead, patroklo, whom i
honour abov all my comrad as it were my veri self! him have i lost,
and hector that slew him hath strip from him the armour great and
fair, a wonder to behold, that the god gave to peleu a splendid gift,
on the dai when thei laid thee in the bed of a mortal man. would thou
hadst abod among the deathless daughter of the sea, and peleu had
wed a mortal bride! but now, that thou mayest have sorrow a thousand
fold in thy heart for a dead son, never shalt thou welcom him back
home, sinc my soul biddeth me also live no longer nor abid among men,
if hector be not first smitten by my spear and yield hi life, and pai
for hi slaughter of patroklo, menoitio' son."

then answer unto him theti shed tear: "short-live, i ween, must
thou be then, my child, by what thou sayest, for straightwai after
hector is death appoint unto thee."

then mightili move spake unto her achil fleet of foot: "straightwai
mai i die, sinc i might not succour my comrad at hi slai. he hath
fallen afar from hi countri and lack my help in hi sore need. now
therefor, sinc i go not back to my dear nativ land, neither have at
all been succour to patroklo nor to all my other comrad that have
been slain by nobl hector, but i sit besid my ship a profitless
burden of the earth, i that in war am such an on as is none els of the
mail-clad achaian, though in council ar other better--mai strife
perish utterli among god and men, and wrath that stirreth even a wise
man to be vex, wrath that far sweeter than trickl honei waxeth like
smoke in the breast of men, even as i wa wroth even now against
agamemnon king of men. but bygon will we let be, for all our pain,
curb the heart in our breast under necess. now go i forth, that i
mai light on the destroy of him i love, on hector: then will i accept
my death whensoev zeu willeth to accomplish it and the other immort
god. for not even the mighti herakl escap death, albeit most dear
to kronian zeu the king, but fate overcam him and hera's cruel wrath.
so also shall i, if my fate hath been fashion likewis, lie low when i
am dead. but now let me win high renown, let me set some trojan woman,
some deep-bosom daughter of dardano, staunch with both hand the
tear upon her tender cheek and wail bitterli; yea, let them know
that i am come back, though i tarri long from the war. hold not me
then from the battl in thy love, for thou shalt not prevail with me."

then theti the silver-foot goddess answer him, sai: "yea verili,
my child, no blame is in thi, that thou ward sheer destruct from thy
comrad in their distress. but thy fair glitter armour of bronz is
held among the trojan. hector of the glanc helm beareth it on hi
shoulder in triumph, yet not for long, i ween, shall he glori therein,
for death is hard anigh him. but thou, go not yet down into the mellai
of war until thou see me with thine ey come hither. in the morn
will i return, at the come up of the sun, bear fair armour from the
king hephaisto."

thu spake she and turn to go from her son, and as she turn she
spake among her sister of the sea: "ye now go down within the wide
bosom of the deep, to visit the ancient on of the sea and our father's
hous, and tell him all. i am go to high olympu to hephaisto of
nobl skill, if hapli he will give unto my son nobl armour shine
glorious."

thu spake she, and thei forthwith went down beneath the surg of the
sea. and the silver-foot goddess theti went on to olympu that she
might bring nobl armour to her son.

so her unto olympu her feet bore. but the achaian with terribl cri
were flee befor man-slai hector till thei came to the ship and
to the hellespont. nor might the well-greav achaian drag the corps
of patroklo achil' squir out of the dart, for now again overtook
him the host and the hors of troi, and hector son of priam, in might
as it were a flame of fire. thrice did gloriou hector seiz him from
behind by the feet, resolv to drag him awai, and mightili call upon
the men of troi. thrice did the two aiant, cloth on with impetu
might, beat him off from the dead man, but he nathless, trust in hi
might, anon would charg into the press, anon would stand and cry aloud,
but he gave ground never a whit. as when shepherd in the field avail
nowis to chase a fieri lion in fierc hunger awai from a carcas, so
avail not the two warrior aiant to scare hector son of priam from
the dead. and now would he have won the bodi and gain renown
unspeak, had not fleet wind-foot iri come speed from olympu
with a messag to the son of peleu to arrai him, unknown of zeu and
the other god, for hera sent her. and she stood anigh and spake to him
wing word: "rous thee, son of peleu, of all men most redoubt!
succour patroklo, for whose bodi is terribl battl afoot befor the
ship. there slai thei on anoth, these guard the dead corps,
while the men of troi ar fierc to hale him unto windi ilio, and
chiefliest nobl hector is fain to drag him, and hi heart biddeth him
fix the head on the stake of the wall when he hath sunder it from the
tender neck. but aris, lie thu no longer! let aw enter thy heart to
forbid that patroklo becom the sport of dog of troi. thine were the
shame if he go down mangl amid the dead."

then answer her fleet-foot nobl achil: "goddess iri, what god
sent thee a messeng unto me?"

and to him again spake wind-foot fleet iri: "it wa hera that sent
me, the wise wife of zeu, nor knoweth the high-throne son of krono
nor ani other of the immort that on snowi olympu have their
dwell-place."

and achil fleet of foot made answer to her and said: "and how mai i
go into the frai? the trojan hold my arm; and my dear mother bade me
forbear to arrai me until i behold her with my ey return, for she
promis to bring fair armour from hephaisto. other man know i none
whose nobl armour i might put on, save it were the shield of aia
telamon's son. but himself, i ween, is in the forefront of the press,
deal death with hi spear around patroklo dead."

then again spake unto him wind-foot fleet iri: "well ar we also
awar that thy nobl armour is held from thee. but go forth unto the
trench as thou art and show thyself to the men of troi, if hapli thei
will shrink back and refrain them from battl, and the warlik son of
the achaian take breath."

thu spake fleet-foot iri and went her wai. but achil dear to zeu
aros, and around hi strong shoulder athen cast her tassel aegi,
and around hi head the bright goddess set a crown of a golden cloud,
and kindl therefrom a blaze flame. and as when a smoke issueth from
a citi and riseth up into the upper air, from an island afar off that
foe beleagu, while the other from their citi fight all dai in
hate war,--but with the go down of the sun blaze out the
beacon-fire in line, and high aloft rusheth up the glare for dweller
round about to behold, if hapli thei mai come with ship to help in
need--thu from the head of achil soar that blaze toward the
heaven. and he went and stood beyond the wall besid the trench, yet
mingl not among the achaian, for he mind the wise bid of hi
mother. there stood he and shout aloud, and afar off palla athen
utter her voic, and spread terror unspeak among the men of troi.
clear as the voic of a clarion when it soundeth by reason of
slaughter foemen that beleagu a citi, so clear rang forth the voic
of aiakid. and when thei heard the brazen voic of aiakid, the soul
of all of them were dismai, and the hors of goodli mane were fain
to turn the chariot backward, for thei bode anguish in their heart,
and the chariot were amaz when thei saw the unweari fire blaze
fierc on the head of the great-heart son of peleu, for the
bright-ei goddess athen made it blaze. thrice from over the trench
shout mightili nobl achil, and thrice were the men of troi
confound and their proud alli. yea there and then perish twelv
men of their best by their own chariot wheel and spear. but the
achaian with joi drew patroklo forth of the dart and laid him on a
litter, and hi dear comrad stood around lament him; and among them
follow fleet-foot achil, shed hot tear, for hi true comrad
he saw ly on the bier, mangl by the keen bronz. him sent he forth
with chariot and hors unto the battl, but home again welcom never
more.

then hera the ox-ei queen sent down the unweari sun to be gone
unwillingli unto the stream of ocean. so the sun set, and the nobl
achaian made paus from the stress of battl and the hazard war.

but the achaian all night made moan in lament for patroklo. and
first of them in the loud lament wa the son of peleu, lai upon
the breast of hi comrad hi man-slai hand and moan veri sore,
even as a deep-beard lion whose whelp some stag-hunter hath snatch
awai out of a deep wood; and the lion come afterward grieveth and
through mani glen he rangeth on the track of the footstep of the man,
if anywher he might find him, for most bitter anger seizeth him;--thu
achil moan heavili spake among the myrmidon: "ay me, vain verili
wa the word i utter on that dai when i cheer the hero menoitio in
hi hall and said that i would bring back to opoei hi son in glori
from the sack of ilio with the share of spoil that should fall unto
him. not all the purpos of men doth zeu accomplish for them. it is
appoint that both of us redden the same earth with our blood here in
troi-land, for neither shall the old knight peleu welcom me back home
within hi hall, nor my mother theti, but even here shall earth keep
hold on me. yet now, o patroklo, sinc i follow thee under earth, i
will not hold thy funer till i have brought hither the armour and the
head of hector, thy high-heart slayer, and befor thy pyre i will cut
the throat of twelv nobl son of the men of troi, for mine anger thou
art slain. till then besid the beak ship shalt thou lie as thou art,
and around thee deep-bosom women, trojan and dardanian, shall mourn
thee weep night and dai, even thei whom we toil to win by our
strength and, our long spear when we sack rich citi of mortal men."

thu spake nobl achil, and bade hi comrad set a great tripod on
the fire, that with all speed thei might wash from patroklo the bloodi
gore. so thei set a tripod of ablut on the burn fire, and pour
therein water and took wood and kindl it beneath; and the fire wrap
the belli of the tripod, and the water grew hot. and when the water
boil in the bright bronz, then wash thei him and anoint with
oliv oil, and fill hi wound with fresh ointment, and laid him on a
bier and cover him with soft cloth from head to foot, and thereov a
white robe. then all night around achil fleet of foot the myrmidon
made lament and moan for patroklo.

meanwhil zeu spake unto hera hi sister and wife: "thou hast
accomplish thi, o hera, ox-ei queen, thou hast arous achil
fleet of foot. verili of thine own children must the flow-hair
achaian be."

then answer unto him hera the ox-ei queen: "most dread son of
krono, what is thi word thou hast said? truli even a man, i ween, is
to accomplish what he mai for anoth man, albeit he is mortal and hath
not wisdom as we. how then wa i who avow me the first of goddess both
by birth and for that i am call thy wife, and thou art king among all
immort--how wa i not in mine anger to devis evil against the men of
troi?"

so debat thei on thi wise with on anoth. but theti of the silver
feet came unto the hous of hephaisto, imperish, starlik, far seen
among the dwell of immort, a hous of bronz, wrought by the
crook-foot god himself. him found she sweat in toil and busi about
hi bellow, for he wa forg tripod twenti in all to stand around
the wall of hi stablish hall, and beneath the base of each he had set
golden wheel, that of their own motion thei might enter the assembl of
the god and again return unto hi hous, a marvel to look upon. thu
much were thei finish that not yet were awai from the fire, and
gather all hi gear wherewith he work into a silver chest; and with
a spong he wipe hi face and hand and sturdi neck and shaggi breast,
and did on hi doublet, and took a stout staff and went forth limp;
but there were handmaiden of gold that move to help their lord, the
semblanc of live maid. in them is understand at their heart, in
them ar voic and strength, and thei have skill of the immort god.
these move beneath their lord, and he gat him haltingli near to where
theti wa, and set him on a bright seat, and clasp her hand in hi
and spake and call her by her name: "wherefor, long-robe theti,
comest thou to our hous, honour that thou art and dear? no frequent
comer art thou hitherto. speak what thou hast at heart; my soul is fain
to accomplish it; if accomplish it i can, and if it be appoint for
accomplish."

then answer unto him theti shed tear: "hephaisto, hath there
verili been ani of all goddess in olympu that hath endur so mani
grievou sorrow at heart as ar the woe that kronian zeu hath laid
upon me abov all other? he chose me from among the sister of the sea
to enthral me to a man, even peleu aiako' son, and with a man i
endur wedlock sore against my will. now lieth he in hi hall forspent
with grievou ag, but other grief ar mine. a son he gave me to bear
and nourish, the chief of hero, and he shot up like a young branch.
like a plant in a veri fruit field i rear him and sent him forth on
beak ship to ilio to fight against the men of troi, but never again
shall i welcom him back to hi home within the hous of peleu. and
while he yet liveth in my sight and beholdeth the light of the sun, he
sorroweth, neither can i help him ani whit though i go unto him. the
maiden whom the son of the achaian chose out to be hi prize, her hath
the lord agamemnon taken back out of hi hand. in grief for her wast
he hi heart, while the men of troi were drive the achaian on their
ship, nor suffer them to come forth. and the elder of the argiv
entreat him, and told over mani nobl gift. then albeit himself he
refus to ward destruct from them, he put hi armour on patroklo
and sent him to the war, and much peopl with him. all dai thei fought
around the skaian gate and that same dai had sack the town, but that
when now menoitio' valiant son had wrought much harm, apollo slew him
in the forefront of the battl, and gave glori unto hector. therefor
now come i a suppliant unto thy knee, if hapli thou be will to give
my short-live son shield and helmet, and goodli greav fit with
ankl-piec, and cuirass. for the armour that he had erst, hi trusti
comrad lost when he fell beneath the men of troi; and my son lieth on
the earth with anguish in hi soul."

then made answer unto her the lame god of great renown: "be of good
courag, let not these thing troubl thy heart. would that so might i
avail to hide him far from dolor death, when dread fate cometh upon
him, as sure shall goodli armour be at hi need, such as all men
afterward shall marvel at, whatsoev mai behold."

thu sai he left her there and went unto hi bellow and turn them
upon the fire and bade them work. and the bellow, twenti in all, blew
on the crucibl, send deft blast on everi side, now to aid hi
labour and now anon howsoev hephaisto will and the work went on.
and he threw bronz that weareth not into the fire, and tin and preciou
gold and silver, and next he set on an anvil-stand a great anvil, and
took in hi hand a sturdi hammer, and in the other he took the tong.

first fashion he a shield great and strong, adorn it all over, and
set thereto a shine rim, tripl, bright-glanc, and therefrom a
silver baldric. five were the fold of the shield itself; and therein
fashion he much cun work from hi wise heart.

there wrought he the earth, and the heaven, and the sea, and the
unweari sun, and the moon wax to the full, and the sign everi on
wherewith the heaven ar crown, pleiad and hyad and orion's might,
and the bear that men call also the wain, her that turneth in her place
and watcheth orion, and alon hath no part in the bath of ocean.

also he fashion therein two fair citi of mortal men. in the on were
espous and marriag feast, and beneath the blaze of torch thei
were lead the bride from their chamber through the citi, and loud
aros the bridal song. and young men were whirl in the danc, and
among them flute and viol sound high; and women stand each at her
door were marvel. but the folk were gather in the assembl place;
for there a strife wa arisen, two men strive about the blood-price of
a man slain; the on claim to pai full aton, expound to the
peopl, but the other deni him and would take naught. and the folk
were cheer both, as thei took part on either side. and herald kept
order among the folk, while the elder on polish stone were sit
in the sacr circl, and hold in their hand stave from the
loud-voic herald. then befor the peopl thei rose up and gave
judgment each in turn. and in the midst lai two talent of gold, to be
given unto him who should plead among them most righteous.

but around the other citi were two armi in sieg with glitter arm.
and two counsel found favour among them, either to sack the town or to
share all with the townsfolk even whatsoev substanc the fair citi
held within. but the besieg were not yet yield, but arm for an
ambush. on the wall there stood to guard it their dear wive and
infant children, and with these the old men; but the rest went forth,
and their leader were ar and palla athen, both wrought in gold, and
golden wa the vestur thei had on. goodli and great were thei in their
armour, even as god, far seen around, and the folk at their feet were
smaller. and when thei came where it seem good to them to lai ambush,
in a river bed where there wa a common water-place of herd, there
thei set them, clad in glitter bronz. and two scout were post by
them afar off to spy the come of flock and of oxen with crook
horn. and present came the cattl, and with them two herdsmen plai
on pipe, that took no thought of the guil. then the other when thei
beheld these ran upon them and quickli cut off the herd of oxen and
fair flock of white sheep, and slew the shepherd withal. but the
besieg, as thei sat befor the speech-place [from which the orat
spoke] and heard much din among the oxen, mount forthwith behind their
high-step hors, and came up with speed. then thei arrai their
battl and fought besid the river bank, and smote on anoth with
bronz-shod spear. and among them mingl strife and tumult, and fell
death, grasp on man aliv fresh-wound, anoth without wound, and
drag anoth dead through the mellai by the feet; and the raiment on
her shoulder wa red with the blood of men. like live mortal thei
hurl togeth and fought, and hale the corps each of the other's
slain.

furthermor he set in the shield a soft fresh-plough field, rich tilth
and wide, the third time plough; and mani plougher therein drave
their yoke to and fro as thei wheel about. whensoev thei came to
the boundari of the field and turn, then would a man come to each and
give into hi hand a goblet of sweet wine, while other would be
turn back along the furrow, fain to reach the boundari of the deep
tilth. and the field grew black behind and seem as it were
a-plough, albeit of gold, for thi wa the great marvel of the work.

furthermor he set therein the demesn-land of a king, where hind were
reap with sharp sickl in their hand. some arm along the swath
were fall in row to the earth, whilst other the sheaf-binder were
bind in twist band of straw. three sheaf-binder stood over them,
while behind boi gather corn and bear it in their arm gave it
constantli to the binder; and among them the king in silenc wa
stand at the swath with hi staff, rejoic in hi heart. and
henchmen apart beneath an oak were make readi a feast, and prepar a
great ox thei had sacrif; while the women were strew much white
barlei to be a supper for the hind.

also he set therein a vineyard teem plenteous with cluster,
wrought fair in gold; black were the grape, but the vine hung
throughout on silver pole. and around it he ran a ditch of cyanu, and
round that a fenc of tin; and on singl pathwai led to it, wherebi the
vintag might go when thei should gather the vintag. and maiden and
stripl in childish glee bare the sweet fruit in plait basket. and
in the midst of them a boi made pleasant music on a clear-tone viol,
and sang thereto a sweet lino-song [probabl a lament for depart
summer] with delic voic; while the rest with feet fall togeth
kept time with the music and song.

also he wrought therein a herd of kine with upright horn, and the kine
were fashion of gold and tin, and with low thei hurri from the
byre to pastur besid a murmur river, besid the wave reed. and
herdsmen of gold were follow with the kine, four of them, and nine
dog fleet of foot came after them. but two terribl lion among the
foremost kine had seiz a loud-roar bull that bellow mightili as
thei hale him, and the dog and the young men sped after him. the lion
rend the great bull's hide were devour hi vital and hi black
blood; while the herdsmen in vain tar on their fleet dog to set on,
for thei shrank from bite the lion but stood hard by and bark and
swerv awai.

also the gloriou lame god wrought therein a pastur in a fair glen, a
great pastur of white sheep, and a stead, and roof hut, and
fold.

also did the gloriou lame god devis a danc-place like unto that
which onc in wide knoso daidalo wrought for ariadn of the love
tress. there were youth danc and maiden of costli woo, their
hand upon on anoth's wrist. fine linen the maiden had on, and the
youth well-woven doublet faintli glisten with oil. fair wreath had
the maiden, and the youth dagger of gold hang from silver
baldric. and now would thei run round with deft feet exceed lightli,
as when a potter sit by hi wheel that fitteth between hi hand
maketh trial of it whether it run: and now anon thei would run in line
to meet each other. and a great compani stood round the love danc in
joi; and through the midst of them, lead the measur, two tumbler
whirl.

also he set therein the great might of the river of ocean around the
uttermost rim of the cunningli-fashion shield.

now when he had wrought the shield great and strong, then wrought he him
a corslet brighter than a flame of fire, and he wrought him a massiv
helmet to fit hi brow, goodli and graven, and set thereon a crest of
gold, and he wrought him greav of pliant tin.

so when the renown lame god had finish all the armour, he took and
laid it befor the mother of achil. then she like a falcon sprang
down from snowi olympu, bear from hephaisto the glitter arm.



book xix.

    how achil and agamemnon were reconcil befor the
    assembl of the achaian, and achil went forth with them
    to battl.

now morn saffron-robe aros from the stream of ocean to bring light
to god and men, and theti came to the ship, bear hi gift from the
god. her dear son she found fallen about patroklo and utter loud
lament; and round him mani of hi compani made moan. and the bright
goddess stood besid him in their midst, and clasp her hand in hi and
spake and call upon hi name: "my child, him who lieth here we must
let be, for all our pain, for by the will of god from the begin wa
he brought low. but thou take from hephaisto arm of pride, arm
pass goodli, such as no man on hi shoulder yet hath born."

thu spake the goddess and in front of aehifi laid the arm, and thei
rang all again in their glori. and aw fell on all the myrmidon, nor
dare ani to gaze thereon, for thei were aw-stricken. but when achil
look thereon, then came furi upon him the more, and hi ey blaze
terribl forth as it were a flame beneath their lid: glad wa he as he
held in hi hand that splendid gift of a god. but when he had satisfi
hi soul in gaze on the glori of the arm, straightwai to hi mother
spake he wing word: "my mother, the arm the god ha given ar such
as it beseemeth that the work of immort should be, and that no mortal
man should have wrought. now therefor will i arm me in them, but i have
grievou fear lest meantim on the gash wound of menoitio' valiant
son fli light and breed worm therein, and defil hi corps--for the
life is slain out of him--and so all hi flesh shall rot."

then answer him theti, goddess of the silver feet: "child, have no
care for thi within thy mind. i will see to ward from him the cruel
tribe of fli which prei on men slain in fight: for even though he lie
till a whole year's cours be run, yet hi flesh shall be sound
continu, or better even than now. but call thou the achaian warrior
to the place of assembl, and unsai thy wrath against agamemnon shepherd
of the host, and then arm swiftli for battl, and cloth thee with thy
strength."

thu sai she fill him with adventur might, while on patroklo
she shed ambrosia and red nectar through hi nostril, that hi flesh
might abid the same continu.

but nobl achil went down the beach of the sea, cry hi terribl
cry, and rous the achaian warrior. and thei who befor were wont to
abid in the circl of the ship, and thei who were helmsmen and kept
the steerag of the ship, or were steward there and dealt out food,
even these came then to the place of assembl, becaus achil wa come
forth, after long ceas from grievou war. limp came two of ar'
compani, tydeu' son staunch in fight and nobl odysseu, each lean
on hi spear, for their wound were grievou still; and thei went and
sate them down in the forefront of the assembl. and last came agamemnon
king of men, with hi wound upon him, for him too in the stress of
battl kooen antenor's son had wound with hi bronz-tip spear. but
when all the achaian were gather, then upros fleet-foot achil
and spake in their midst: "son of atreu, wa thi in ani wise the
better wai for both thee and me, what time with grief at our heart we
wax fierc in soul-devour strife for the sake of a girl? would that
artemi had slain her with her arrow at the ship, on the dai whereon i
took her to me, when i had spoil lyrnesso; so should not then so mani
achaian have bitten the wide earth beneath their enemi' hand, by
reason of my exceed wrath. it hath been well for hector and the
trojan, but the achaian i think shall long rememb the strife that
wa betwixt thee and me. but bygon will we let be, for all our pain,
and curb under necess the spirit within our breast. i now will stai
my anger: it beseem me not implac for ever to be wroth; but come
rous speedili to the fight the flow-hair achaian, that i mai go
forth against the men of troi and put them yet again to the proof, if
thei be fain to couch hard by the ship. methink that some among them
shall be glad to rest their knee when thei ar fled out of the
fierc of the battl, and from befor our spear."

he spake, and the well-greav achaian rejoic that the great-heart
son of peleu had made renounc of hi wrath. then among them spake
agamemnon king of men, speak from the place where he sat, not arisen
to stand forth in their midst: "o danaan friend and hero, men of
ar' compani, seemli is it to listen to him who standeth up to speak,
nor behoveth it to break in upon hi word: even toward a skill man
that were hard. for amid the uproar of mani men how should on listen,
or yet speak? even the clearest-voic speech is mar. to the son of
peleu i will declar myself, but ye other argiv give heed, and each
mark well my word. oft have the achaian spoken thu to me, and
upbraid me; but it is not i who am the caus, but zeu and destini and
erini that walketh in the dark, who put into my soul fierc mad
on the dai when in the assembl i, even i, bereft achil of hi meed.
what could i do? it is god who accomplisheth all. eldest daughter of
zeu is at who blindeth all, a power of bane: delic ar her feet,
for not upon the earth she goeth, but walketh over the head of men,
make men fall; and entangleth thi on or that. ye even zeu wa
blind upon a time, he who thei sai is greatest among god and men; yet
even him hera with a femal wile deceiv, on the dai when alkmen in
fair-crown thebe wa to bring forth the strength of herakl. for
then proclaim he solemnli among the god: 'here me ye all, both god
and goddess, while i utter the council of my soul within my heart.
thi dai shall eileithuia, the help of travail women, bring to the
light a man who shall be lord over all that dwell round about, among the
rais of men who ar sprung of me by blood.' and to him in subtleti
queen hera spake: 'though wilt plai the cheat and not accomplish thy
word. come now, olympian, swear me a firm oath that verili and inde
shall that man be lord over all that dwell round about, who thi dai
shall fall between a woman's feet, even he among all men who ar of the
lineag of thy blood.' so spake she, and zeu no wise perceiv her
subtleti but sware a mighti oath, and therewith wa he sore blind. for
hera dart from olympu' peak and came swiftli to achaian argu, were
she knew wa the state wife of sthenelo son of perseu, who wa also
great with child, and her seventh month had come. her son hera brought
to the light, though hi tale of month wa untold, but she stai
alkmen's bear and kept the eileithuiai from her aid. then she
brought the tide herself and to krono' son zeu she spake: 'father
zeu of the bright lightn, a word will i speak to thee for my heed.
todai is born a man of valor who shall rule among the archiv,
eurystheu, son of sthenelo the son of perseu, of thy lineag; not
unmeet is it that he be lord among argiv.' she said, but sharp pain
smote him in the depth of hi soul, and straightwai he seiz at by
her bright-hair head in the anger of hi soul, and sware a mighti oath
that never again to olympu and the starri heaven should at come, who
blindeth all alik. he said, and whirl her in hi hand flung her from
the starri heaven, and quickli came she down among the work of men. yet
ever he groan against her when he beheld hi belov son in cruel
travail at eurystheu' hest. thu also i, what time great hector of the
glanc helm wa slai argiv at the stern of our ship, could not
be unmind of at, who blind me at the first. but sinc thu blind
wa i, and zeu bereft me of my wit, fain am i to make amend, and
recompens manifold for the wrong. onli aris thou to the battl and
rous the rest of the host. gift am i readi to offer, even all that
nobl odysseu went yesterdai to promis in thy hut. so, if thou wilt,
stai awhil, though eager, from battl, and squir shall take the gift
from my ship and carri them to thee, that thou mayest see that what i
give sufficeth thee."

then answer him achil swift of foot: "most nobl son of atreu,
agamemnon king of men, for the gift, to give them as it beseemeth, if
so thou wilt, or to withhold, is in thy choic. but now let us bethink
us of battl with all speed; thi is no time to dalli here with
subtleti, for a great work is yet undon. onc more must achil be
seen in the forefront of the battl, lai wast with hi brazen spear
the battalion of the men of troi. thereof let each of you think as he
fighteth with hi man."

then odysseu of mani counsel answer him and said: "nai yet, for all
thy valour, godlik achil, not against ilio lead thou the son of
achaian fast to fight the men of troi, sinc not of short spell
shall the battl be, when onc the rank of men ar met, and god shall
breath valour into both. but bid the achaian tast at the swift ship
food and wine; for thenc is vigour and might. for no man fast from
food shall be abl to fight with the foe all dai till the go down of
the sun; for though hi spirit be eager for battl yet hi limb unawar
grow weari, and thirst besetteth him, and hunger, and hi knee in hi
go fail. but the man who have hi fill of food and wine fighteth
thu all dai against the enemi, hi heart is of good cheer within him,
nor anywis tire hi limb, er all give back from battl. so come,
dispers the host and bid them make readi their meal. and the gift let
agamemnon king of men bring forth into the midst of the assembl, that
all achaian mai behold them with their ey, and thou be glad at heart.
and let him swear to thee an oath, stand in the midst of the argiv,
that he hath never gone up into the damsel's bed or lain with her, [o
princ, as is the wont of man with woman]; and let thine own spirit be
placabl within thy breast. then let him make thee a rich feast of
reconcil in hi hut, that thou have noth lack of thy right.
and thou, son of atreu, toward other also shalt be more righteou
hereaft; for no shame it is that a man that is a king should make
amend if he have been the first to deal violent."

then to him spake agamemnon king of men: "son of laert, i rejoic to
listen to thy speech; for rightfulli hast thou told over all. and the
oath i am will to swear, yea my heart biddeth it, nor will i forswear
myself befor god. let achil abid for a space, eager for battl
though he be, and all ye other abid togeth, until the gift come
forth from my hut, and we make faith oath with sacrific. but thee
thyself i thu charg and bid. choos thee young men, princ of the
achaian folk, and bear my gift from my ship, even all that we promis
yesterdai to achil, and take with thee the women. and let talthybio
speedili make me readi a boar-swine in the midst of the wide achaian
host, to sacrific to zeu and to the sun."

and to him in answer swift-foot achil spake: "most nobl son of
atreu, agamemnon king of men, at some other time were it even better ye
should be busi thu, when hapli there shall be some paus of war, and
the spirit within my breast shall be less fierc. but now thei lie
mangl on the field--even thei whom hector son of priam slew, when zeu
gave him glori--and ye call men to their food. verili for my part i
would bid the son of the achaian to fight now unf and fast, and
with the set sun make readi a mighti meal, when we shall have
aveng the shame. till then down my throat at least nor food nor drink
shall go, sinc my comrad is dead, who in my hut is ly mangl by
the sharp spear, with hi feet toward the door, and round him our
comrad mourn, wherefor in my heart to no thought of those matter,
but of slai, and blood, and grievou moan of men."

then answer him odysseu of mani counsel: "o achil, peleu' son,
mightiest of achaian far, better and mightier not a littl art thou
than i with the spear, but in counsel i mai surpass thee greatli, sinc
i wa born first and know more thing: wherefor let thy heart endur to
listen to my speech. quickli have men surfeit of battl, of that wherein
the sword streweth most straw yet is the harvest scantiest, [i.e., in a
pitch battl there is littl plunder, the hope of which might help to
sustain men's effort in storm a town] when zeu inclineth hi
balanc, who is dispos of the war of men. but it cannot be that the
achaian fast to mourn a corps; for exceed mani and thick fall such
on everi dai; when then should there be rest from toil? nai, it behoveth
to buri him who is dead, steel our heart, when onc we have wept him
for a dai; but such as ar left aliv from hate war must take thought
of meat and drink, that yet more against our foe we mai fight
relentlessli ever, clad in unyield bronz. then let none of the host
hold back await other summon; thi is the summon, and ill shall it
be for whoso is left behind at the argiv ship; but all togeth as on
we will rous against the hors-tame trojan the furi of war."

he spoke, and took with him the son of nobl nestor, and mege son of
phyleu, and thoa, and merion, and lykomed son of kreiont, and
melanippo. and thei went on their wai to the hut of agamemnon, atreu'
son. forthwith as the word wa spoken so wa the deed done. seven
tripod thei bare from the hut, as he promis him, and twenti bright
caldron, and twelv hors, and anon thei led forth women skill in
goodli art, seven, and the eighth wa fair-face brisei. then
odysseu, have weigh ten talent of gold in all, led the wai, and
with him young men of the achaian bare the gift. these thei set in the
midst of the place of assembl, and agamemnon rose up, and besid that
shepherd of the host stood talthybio, whose voic wa like a god's, and
held a boar between hi hand. and the son of atreu draw with hi
hand hi knife, which ever hung besid the mighti scabbard of hi
sword, cut off the first hair from the boar, and lift up hi hand
he prai to zeu, and all the argiv sat silent in their place, duli
hearken to the king. and he prai aloud, look up to the wide
heaven: "be zeu befor all wit, highest and best of the god, and
earth, and sun, and eriny, who under earth take vengeanc upon men,
whosoev for-sweareth himself, that never have i laid hand on the
damsel brisei, neither to lie with her nor anywis els, but she ha
abod untouch within my hut. and if aught that i swear be fals, mai
the god give me all sorrow manifold, that thei send on him who sinneth
against them in hi oath."

he said, and cut the boar's throat with the pitiless knife. and the bodi
taithybio whirl and threw into the great wash of the hoari sea, to be
the food of fish; but achil aros up and spake in the midst of the
warrior argiv: "father zeu, sore mad dealest thou verili to men.
never could the son of atreu have stir the soul within my breast,
nor led off the damsel implac against my will, had not zeu will
that on mani of the achaian death should come. but now go forth to your
meal, that we mai join battl thereupon."

thu he spake and dispers the assembl with all speed. the rest were
scatter each to hi own ship, but the great-heart myrmidon took up
the gift, and bare them to the ship of godlik achil. and thei laid
them in the hut and set the women there, and gallant squir drave the
hors among their troop.

but brisei that wa like unto golden aphrodit, when she beheld
patroklo mangl by the keen spear, fell about him and made shrill
lament, and tore with her hand her breast and tender neck, and
beauti face. and she spake amid her weep, that woman like unto
goddess: "patroklo, dearest to my hapless heart, aliv i left thee
when i left thi hut, but now, o princ of the peopl, i am come back to
find thee dead; thu evil ever followeth evil in my lot. my husband,
unto whom my father and ladi mother gave me, i beheld befor our citi
mangl with the keen spear, and my three brother whom my own mother
bore, my near and dear, who all met their dai of doom. but thou, when
swift achil slew my husband and wast godlik myne' citi, wouldest
ever that i should not even weep, and saidest that thou wouldst make me
godlik achil' wed wife, and that ye would take me in your ship
to phthia and make me a marriag feast among the myrmidon. therefor
with all my soul i mourn thy death, for thou wert ever kind."

thu spake she weep, and thereon the women wail, in semblanc for
patroklo, but each for her own woe. but round achil gather the
elder of the achaian, prai him that he would eat; but he deni
them with a groan: "i prai you, if ani kind comrad will hearken to me,
bid me not sate my heart with meat and drink, sinc terribl grief is
come upon me. till the sun go down i will abid, and endur continu
until then."

he spoke, and hi speech made the other chief depart, but the two son
of atreu stai, and nobl odysseu, and nestor and idomeneu and
phoinox, ancient knight, sooth him in hi exceed sorrow, but he
could no whit be sooth until he had enter the mouth of bloodi war.
and bethink him he sigh veri heavili and spake aloud: "thou too, o
hapless, dearest of my friend, thyself wouldst verili of yore set forth
in out hut with readi speed a savouri meal, what time the achaian
hast to wage against the hors-tame trojan dolor war. but now
thou liest mangl, and my heart will none of meat and drink, that stand
within, for desir of thee. nought wors than thi could i endur, not
though i should hear of my father's death, who now i ween in phthia is
shed big tear for lack of a son so dear, even me that in an alien
land for sake of bale helen do battl with the men of troi; nor
though it were my belov son who is rear for me in skyro (if still
at least is godlik neoptolemo aliv). for hitherto had my soul within
me trust that i alon should perish far from hors-pastur argo,
here in the trojan land, but that thou shouldest return to phthia, so
that thou mightest take me the child in thy swift black ship from skyro
and show him everyth--my substanc and servant, and high-roof
mighti hall. for peleu i ween alreadi must be dead and gone, or els in
feebl life he hath sorrow of ag, and of wait ever for bitter new
of me, till he hear that i am dead."

thu spake he weep, and the elder mourn with him, bethink them
what each had left at home. and when the son of krono beheld them
sorrow he piti them, and forthwith to athen spake he wing word:
"my child, thou hast then left utterli the man of thy heart. hath
achil then no longer a place within thy thought? he befor the
steep-prow ship sit mourn hi dear comrad; the rest ar gone to
their meal, but he is fast and unf. but go, distil into hi breast
nectar and pleasant ambrosia, that no pain of hunger come on him."

thu sai he sped forward athen who befor wa fain. and she, like a
falcon wide-wing and shrill-voic, hurl herself forth from heaven
through the upper air. so while the achaian were arm present
throughout the camp, she in achil' breast distil nectar and
pleasant ambrosia, that grievou hunger might not assail hi knee, and
then herself wa gone to the firm hous of her mighti father. then the
achaian pour forth from the swift ship. as when thick snowflak
flutter down from zeu, chill beneath the blast of borea born in the
upper air, so thick from the ship stream forth bright glitter
helm and bossi shield, strong-plait cuirass and ashen spear. and
the sheen thereof went up to heaven and all the earth around laugh in
the flash of bronz, and there went a sound beneath the feet of the men,
and in the midst of them nobl achil har him. hi teeth gnash
togeth, and hi ey blaze as it were the flame of a fire, for into
hi heart wa intoler anguish enter in. thu wroth against the men
of troi he put on the gift of the god, which hephaisto wrought him by
hi art. first on hi leg he set the fair greav fit with silver
ankl-piec, and next he don the cuirass about hi breast. then
round hi shoulder he slung the bronz sword silver-stud; then
lastli he took the great and strong shield, and it bright shone
afar off as the moon's. or as when over the sea there appeareth to
sailor the bright of a burn fire, and it burneth on high among
the mountain in some lone stead--sailor whom storm-blast bear
unwil over the sea, the home of fish, afar from them thei love:--
so from achil' goodli well-dight shield the bright thereof shot
up toward heaven. and he lift the stout helmet and set it on hi head,
and like a star it shone, the hors-hair crest helmet, and around it
wave plume of gold that hephaisto had set thick about the crest. then
nobl achil prove him in hi armour to know whether it fit unto
him, and whether hi gloriou limb ran free; and it becam to him as it
were wing, and buoi up the shepherd of host.

and forth from it stand he drew hi father's spear, heavi and great and
strong: that spear could none other of the achaian wield, but achil
alon await to wield it, the pelian ashen spear that cheiron gave to
hi father dear, from a peak of pelion, to be the death of warrior. and
automedon and alkimo went about to yoke the hors, and put on them
fair breast-strap, and bit within their jaw, and stretch the rein
behind to the firm-built chariot. then automedon took the bright lash,
fit to hi hand, and sprang up behind the hors, and after him
mount achil arm, effulg in hi armour like bright hyperion.
and terribl he call upon the hors of hi sire: "xantho and balio,
fame children of podarg, in other sort take heed to bring your
chariot safe back to the danaan host, when we have done with battl,
and leav him not as ye left patroklo to lie there dead."

then the hors xantho of glanc feet made answer unto him from
beneath the yoke;--and he bow with hi head, and all hi mane fell
from the yoke-cushion besid the yoke and touch the ground;--for the
white-arm goddess hera gave him speech: "yea verili for thi hour,
dread achil, we will still bear thee safe, yet is thy death dai nigh
at hand, neither shall we be caus thereof, but a mighti god, and
forc fate. for not through sloth or heedless of our did the men
of troi from patrokio' shoulder strip hi arm, but the best of the
god, whom bright-hair leto bore, slew him in the forefront of the
battl, and to hector gave renown. we even with the wind of zephyr,
swiftest, thei sai, of all wind, well might run; nathless to thee
thyself it is appoint to be slain in fight by a god and by a man."

now when he had thu spoken the eriny stai hi voic. and sore
troubl did fleet-foot achil answer him: "xantho, why prophesiest
thou my death? no wise behoveth it thee. well know i of myself that it
is appoint me to perish here, far from my father dear and mother;
howbeit anywis i will not refrain till i give the trojan surfeit of
war."

he said, and with a cry among the foremost held on hi whole-hoov
steed.



book xx.

    how achil made havoc among the men of troi.

so by the beak ship around thee, son of peleu, hungri for war, the
achaian arm; and over against them the men of troi, upon the high
ground of the plain.

but zeu bade themi call the god to council from mani-fold olympu'
brow; and she rang all about and bade them to the hous of zeu. there
wa no river came not up, save onli ocean, nor ani nymph, of all that
haunt fair thicket and spring of river and grassi water-meadow. and
thei came to the hous of zeu who gathereth the cloud, and sat them
down in the polish colonnad which hephaisto in the cun of hi
heart had wrought for father zeu.

thu gather thei within the door of zeu; nor wa the earthshak
heedless of the goddess' call, but from the salt sea came up after the
rest, and set him in the midst, and inquir concern the purpos of
zeu: "wherefor, o lord of the bright lightn, hast thou call the
god again to council? sai, ponderest thou somewhat concern the
trojan and achaian? for lo, the war and the fight of them ar
kindl veri nigh."

and zeu, who gather the cloud, answer him, sai: "thou knowest,
o earthshak, the purpos within my breast, wherefor i gather you
hither; even in their perish have i regard unto them. but for me i
will abid here, sit within a fold of olympu, where i will gladden
my heart with gaze; but go all ye forth that ye come among the trojan
and achaian and succour these or those, howsoev each of you hath a
mind. for if achil alon shall fight against the trojan, not even a
littl while shall thei hold back the son of peleu, the fleet of foot.
nai, but even aforetim thei trembl when thei look upon him; now
therefor that hi wrath for hi friend is waxen terribl i fear me lest
he overleap the bound of fate, and storm the wall."

thu spake the son of krono, and rous unab war. for on thi side
and on that the god went forth to war: to the compani of the ship went
hera, and palla athen, and poseidon, earth-enfold, and the helper
herm, pro-emin in subtl thought; and with these went hephaisto
in the great of hi strength, halt, but hi shrunk leg move
nimbl under him: but to the trojan went ar of the glanc helm, and
with him phoebu of the unshorn hair, and archer artemi, and leto and
xantho and laughter-love aphrodit.

now for so long as god were afar from mortal men, so long wax the
achaian gloriou, for that achil wa come forth among them, and hi
long ceas from grim battl wa at an end. and the trojan were
smitten with sore trembl in the limb of everi on of them, in terror
when thei beheld the son of peleu, fleet of foot, blaze in hi arm,
peer of man-slai ar. but when among the mellai of men the olympian
were come down, then leapt up in her might strife, rouser of host, then
sent forth athen a cry, now stand by the hollow trench without the
wall, and now on the echo shore she shout aloud. and a shout
utter ar against her, terribl as the black of the storm, now
from the height of the citi to the trojan call clear, or again along
simoi shore over kallikolon he sped.

so urg the bless god both host to battl, then themselv burst
into fierc war. and terribl thunder the father of god and men from
heaven abov; and from beneath poseidon made the vast earth shake and
the steep mountain top. then trembl all the spur of mani-fountain
ida, and all her crest, and the citi of the trojan, and the ship of
the achaian. and the lord of the underworld, aiedoneu, had terror in
hell, and leapt from hi throne in that terror and cri aloud, lest the
world be cloven abov him by poseidon, shaker of earth, and hi
dwell-place be laid bare to mortal and immort--grim hall, and
vast, and lothli to the god. so loud the roar rose of that battl of
god. for against king poseidon stood phoebu apollo with hi wing
arrow, and against enyalio stood athen, bright-ei goddess, and
against hera she of the golden shaft and echo chase, even archer
artemi, sister of the far-darter; and against leto the strong helper
herm, and against hephaisto the great deep-eddi river, whom god
call xantho and men skamandro.

thu god with god were match. meanwhil achil yearn abov all
to meet hector, son of priam, in the frai; for with that blood
chiefliest hi spirit bade him sate ar, stubborn lord of war. but
straightwai apollo, rouser of host, move aineia to go to meet the son
of peleu, and fill him with brave spirit: and he made hi own voic
like the voic of lykaon the son of priam; in hi semblanc spake
apollo, son of zeu: "aineia, counsellor of trojan, where now ar thy
threat wherewith thou didst boast to the trojan lord over thy wine,
sai thou wouldest stand up in battl against achil, peleu' son?"

and to him aineia answer and said: "son of priam, why biddest thou me
thu face the fierc son of peleu in battl, though i be not fain
thereto? not for the first time now shall i match me with achil,
fleet of foot; onc befor drave he me with hi spear from ida, when he
harri our kine and wast lyrnesso and pedaso; but zeu deliv me
out of hi hand and put strength into my knee that thei were swift.
els had i fallen beneath the hand of achil, and of athen who went
befor and gave him light, and urg him to slai leleg and trojan
with hi spear of bronz. therefor it is imposs for man to face
achil in fight, for that ever some god is at hi side to ward off
death. ay, and at ani time hi spear flieth straight, neither ceaseth
till it have pierc through flesh of man. but if god onc give us fair
field of battl, not lightli shall he overcom me, not though he boast
him made of bronz throughout."

and to him in answer spake apollo son of zeu: "yea, hero, prai thou too
to the everliv god; for thou too, men sai, wast born of aphrodit
daughter of zeu, and achil' mother is of less degre among the god.
for thy mother is child of zeu, hi but of the ancient on of the sea.
come, bear up thy unweari spear against him, let him no wise turn
thee back with revil and bitter word."

he said, and breath high spirit into the shepherd of the host, and he
went onward through the forefront of the fight, har in flash
bronz. but white-arm hera fail not to discern anchis' son as he
went through the press of men to meet the son of peleu, and gather
the god about her she spake among them thu: "consid ye twain,
poseidon and athen, within your heart, what shall come of these thing
that ar done. here is aineia gone forth har in flash bronz,
to meet the son of peleu, and it is phoebu apollo that hath sent him.
come then, be it our to turn him back straightwai; or els let some on
of us stand likewis besid achil and give him mighti power, so that
he fail not in hi spirit, but know that thei who love him ar the best
of the immort, and that thei who from of old ward war and fight
from the trojan ar vain as wind. all we from olympu ar come down to
mingl in thi fight that he take no hurt among the trojan on thi
dai--afterward he shall suffer whatsoev thing fate span for him with
her thread, at hi begin, when hi mother bare him. if achil
learn not thi from voic divin, then shall he be afraid when some god
shall come against him in the battl; for god reveal ar hard to look
upon."

then to her made answer poseidon, shaker of the earth: "hera, be not
fierc beyond wisdom; it behoveth thee not. not fain am i at least to
match god with god in strife. let us go now into some high place apart
and seat us there to watch, and battl shall be left to men. onli if
ar or phoebu apollo fall to fight, or put constraint upon achil
and hinder him from fight, then straightwai among us too shall go up the
battl-cry of strife; right soon, methink, shall thei hie them from the
issu of the frai back to olympu to the compani of the god, overcom
by the forc of our hand."

thu spake the blue-hair god, and led the wai to the mound wall of
heaven-sprung herakl, that lofti wall built him by the trojan and
palla athen, that he might escap the monster and be safe from him,
what time he should make hi onset from the beach to the plain. there
sate them down poseidon and the other god, and cloth their shoulder
with impenetr cloud. and thei of the other part sat down on the
brow of kallikolon around thee, archer phoebu, and ar waster of
citi. thu thei on either side sat devis counsel, but shrank all
from fall to grievou war, and zeu from hi high seat command
them.

meanwhil the whole plain wa fill with men and hors and ablaz with
bronz; and the earth rang with the feet of them as thei rush togeth
in the frai. two men far better than the rest were meet in the midst
between the host, eager for battl, aineia, anchis' son, and nobl
achil. first came on aineia threateningli, toss hi strong helm;
hi rapid shield he held befor hi breast, and brandish hi bronz
spear. and on the other side the son of peleu rush to meet him like a
lion, a ravag lion whom men desir to slai, a whole tribe assembl:
and first he goeth hi wai unheed, but when some warrior youth hath
smitten him with a spear, the he gathereth himself open-mouth, and
foam cometh forth about hi teeth, and hi stout spirit groaneth in hi
heart, and with hi tail he scourgeth either side hi rib and flank
and goadeth himself on to fight, and glare is born straight on them
by hi passion, to try whether he shall slai some man of them, or
whether himself shall perish in the forefront of the throng: thu wa
achil driven of hi passion and valiant spirit to go forth to meet
aineia great of heart. and when thei were come near against each other,
then first to aineia spake fleet-foot nobl achil: "aineia,
wherefor hast thou so far come forward from the crowd to stand against
me: doth thy heart bid thee fight with me in hope of hold priam's
honour and lordship among the hors-tame trojan? nai, though thou
slai me, not for that will priam lai hi kingdom in thy hand, for he
hath son, and is sound and of unshaken mind. or have the trojan
allot thee some lot of ground more choic than all the rest, fair
land of tilth and orchard, that thou mayest dwell therein, if thou slai
me? but methink thou wilt find the slai hard; for onc befor, i
ween, have i made thee flee befor my spear. host thou forgotten the dai
when thou wert alon with the kine, and i made thee run swift-foot
down ida's steep in hast?--then didst thou not look behind thee in thy
flight. thenc fleddest thou to lernesso, but i wast it, have
fought against it with the help of athen and of father zeu, and
carri awai women captiv, bereav them of their dai of freedom: onli
thee zeu shield, and other god. but not thi time, methink, shall
thei shield thee, as thou imaginest in thy heart: therefor i bid thee
go back into the throng and come not forth against me, while as yet thou
art unhurt--after the event even a fool is wise."

then to him in answer again aineia spake: "son of peleu, think not
with word to affright me as a child, sinc i too well know myself how
to speak taunt and unjust speech. we know each other's race and lineag
in that we have heard the fame proclaim by mortal men, but never hast
thou set ey on my parent, or i on thine. thou, thei sai, art son of
nobi peleu, and of theti of the fair tress, the daughter of the
sea: the sire i boast is anchis great of heart, and my mother is
aphrodit. of these shall on pair or the other mourn their dear son
todai; for verili not with idl word shall we two satisfi our strife
and depart out of the battl. but, if thou wilt, learn also thi, that
thou mayest well know our lineag, known to full mani men: first zeu
the cloud-gather begat dardano, and he stablish dardania, for not
yet wa holi ilio built upon the plain to be a citi of mortal men, but
still thei dwelt on slope of mani-fountain ida. then dardano begat a
son, king erichthonio, who becam richest of mortal men. three thousand
mare had he that pastur along the marsh meadow, rejoic in their
tender foal. of them wa borea enamour as thei graze, and in
semblanc of a dark-mane hors he cover them: then thei have
conceiv bare twelv filli. these when thei bound over earth the
grain-giver would run upon the topmost ripen ear of corn and break
them not; and when thei bound over the broad back of the sea thei
would run upon the crest of the breaker of the hoari brine. then
erichthonio begat tro to be load over the trojan, and to tro three
nobl son were born, ilo and assarako and godlik ganymed, who
becam the most beauti of mortal men. him the god caught up to be
cupbear to zeu, for sake of hi beauti, that he might dwell among
immort. then ilo again begat a son, nobl laomedon, and laomedon
begat tithono and priam and lamppo and klytio and hiketaon, of the
stock of ar. and assarako begat kapi, and kapi anchis, and
anchis me; but priam begat the goodli hector.

"lo then of thi blood and lineag declar i myself unto thee. but for
valour, zeu increaseth it in men or minisheth it accord as he will,
for he is lord of all. but come, let us talk thu togeth no longer
like children, stand in mid onset of war. for there ar revil in
plenti for both of us to utter--a hundr-thwart ship would not
suffic for the load of them. glib is the tongu of man, and mani word
ar therein of everi kind, and wide is the rang of hi speech hither
and thither. whatsoev word thou speak, such wilt thou hear in answer.
but what need that we should bandi strife and wrangl each against
each. not by speech shalt thou turn me from the battl that i desir,
until we have fought togeth, point to point: come then, and
straightwai we will each try the other with bronz-head spear."

he said, and against that other's dread and mighti shield hurl hi
great spear, and the shield rang loud beneath the spear-point. and the
son of peleu held awai the shield from him with hi stout hand, in
fear, for he thought that the far-shadow spear of aineia great of
heart would lightli pierc it through--fond man, and knew not in hi
mind and heart that not lightli do the gloriou gift of god yield to
forc of mortal men. so did not the great spear of wise aineia pierc
that shield, for the gold resist it, even the gift of the god. yet
through two fold he drave it, but three remain, for five fold had
the lame god weld, two bronz, and two insid of tin, and on of gold;
therein wa stai the ashen spear.

then achil in hi turn hurl hi far-shadow spear, and smote upon
the circl of the shield of aineia, beneath the edg of the rim, where
the bronz ran thinnest round, and the bull-hide wa thinnest thereon;
and right through sped the pelian ashen spear, and the shield crack
under it. and aineia crouch and held up the shield awai from him in
dread; and the spear flew over hi back and fix itself in the earth,
have divid asund the two circl of the shelter shield. and
have escap the long spear he stood still, and a vast anguish drown
hi ey, affright that the spear wa plant by him so nigh. but
achil drew hi sharp sword and furious made at him, cry hi
terribl cry: then aineia grasp in hi hand a stone (a mighti deed)
such as two men, as men now ar, would not avail to lift, but he with
eas wield it all alon. then would aineia have smitten him with the
stone as he charg, either on helm or shield, which had ward from him
bitter death, and then would the son of peleu have close and slain him
with hi sword, had not poseidon, shaker of earth, mark it with speed,
and straightwai spoken among the immort god: "ala, woe is me for
aineia great of heart, who quickli will go down to hade slain by the
son of peleu, for that he will obei the word of apollo the far-darter,
fond man, but nowis shall the god help him from grievou death. but
wherefor now is he to suffer ill in hi innoc, causelessli for
other' wicked, yet welcom ever ar hi offer to the god who
inhabit the spaciou heaven? come, let us guid him out of death's wai,
lest the son of krono be wroth, if achil slai him; for it is
appoint to him to escap, that the race of dardano perish not without
seed or sign, even dardano whom the son of krono love abov all the
children born to him from the daughter of men. for the race of priam
hath zeu alreadi hate. but thu shall the might of aineia reign among
the trojan, and hi children's children, who shall be born in the
aftertim."

and him then answer hera the ox-ei queen: "shaker of earth, thyself
with thine own mind take counsel, whether thou wilt save aineia, or
leav him [to be slain, brave though he be, by achil, peleu' son].
for by mani oath among all the immort have we two sworn, even palla
athen and i, never to help the trojan from their evil dai, not even
when all troi shall burn in the burn of fierc fire, and thei that
burn her shall be the warlik son of the achaian."

now when poseidon shaker of earth heard that, he went up amid the battl
and the clash of spear, and came where aineia and renown achil
were. then present he shed mist over the ey of achil, peleu'
son, and drew the bronz-head ashen spear from the shield of aineia
great of heart, and set it befor achil' feet, and lift aineia
and swung him high from off the earth. over mani rank of warrior, of
hors mani, sprang aineia soar in the hand of the god, and light
at the farthest verg of the battl of mani onset, where the kaukon
were arrai them for the fight. then hard besid him came poseidon,
shaker of earth, and spake aloud to him wing word: "aineia, what god
is it that biddeth thee fight infatu against peleu' vehement son,
who is both a better man than thou and dearer to immort? rather
withdraw thee whensoev thou fallest in with him, lest even contrari to
thy fate thou enter the hous of hade. but when achil shall have met
hi death and doom, then be thou of good courag to fight among the
foremost, for there shall none other of the achaian slai thee."

he spoke, and left him there, when he had shown him all these thing.
then quickli from achil' ey he purg the magic mist; and he stare
with wide ey, and in troubl spake unto hi proud soul: "ha! verili a
great marvel behold i here with mine ey. my spear lieth here upon the
ground, nor can i anywis see the man at whom i hurl it with intent to
slai him. truli then is aineia likewis dear to the immort god,
howbeit i deem that hi boost thereof wa altogeth vaniti. awai
with him! not again will he find heart to make trial of me, now that
onc more he ha escap death to hi joi. but come, i will call on the
warlik danaan and go forth to make trial of some other trojan face to
face."

he said, and leapt along the line, and call upon each man: "no longer
stand afar from the men of troi, nobl achaian, but come let man match
man and throw hi soul into the fight. hard is it for me, though i be
strong, to assail so vast a folk and fight them all: not even ar,
though an immort god, nor athen, could plung into the jaw of such a
frai and toil therein. but to my utmost power with hand and feet and
strength no whit, i sai, will i be slack, nai, never so littl, but
right through their line will i go forward, nor deem i that ani trojan
shall be glad who shall come nigh my spear."

thu spake he urg them. but to the trojan gloriou hector call
aloud, and proclaim that he would go forth against achil:
"high-heart trojan, fear not peleu' son. i too in word could fight
even immort, but with the spear it were hard, for thei ar stronger
far. neither shall achil accomplish all hi talk, but part thereof he
is to accomplish, and part to break asund in the midst. and against
him will i go forth, though the hand of him be even as fire, yea though
hi hand be as fire and hi fierc as the flame steel."

thu spake he urg them, and the trojan rais their spear for
battl; and their fierc wa mingl confusedli, and the battl-cry
aros. then phoebu apollo stood by hector and spake to him: "hector, no
longer challeng achil at all befor the line, but in the throng
await him and from amid the roar of the battl, lest hapli he spear thee
or come near and smite thee with hi sword."

thu spake he, and hector again fell back into the crowd of men, for he
wa amaz when he heard the sound of a god's voic.

but achil sprang in among the trojan, hi heart cloth with
strength, cry hi terribl cry, and first he took iphit,
otrynteu' valiant son, a leader of much peopl, born of a naiad nymph
to otrynteu waster of citi, beneath snowi tmolo, in hyde's rich
domain. him as he came right on did goodli achil smite with hi
hurl spear, down through the midst of hi head, and it wa rent
asund utterli. and he fell with a crash, and goodli achil exult
over him; "here is thy death, thy birth wa on the gygaian lake, where is
thy sire's demesn, by hyllo rich in fish and eddi hermo."

thu spake he exult, but dark fell upon the ey of iphit: him
the chariot of the achaian clave with their tire asund in the
forefront of the battl, and over him achil pierc in the templ,
through hi bronz-cheek helmet, demoleon, brave stemmer of battl,
antenor's son. no stop made the bronz helmet, but therethrough sped the
spear-head and clave the bone, and the brain within wa all scatter:
that stroke made end of hi zeal. then hippodama, as he leapt from
hi chariot and fled befor him, achil wound in the back with hi
spear: and he breath forth hi spirit with a roar, as when a drag
bull roareth that the young men drag to the altar of the lord of helik;
for in such hath the earthshak hi delight: thu roar hippodama as
from hi bone fled forth hi haughti spirit. but achil with hi
spear went on after godlik polydoro, priam's son. him would hi sire
continu forbid to fight, for that among hi children he wa youngest
born and best belov, and overcam all in fleet of foot. just then
in boyish folli, displai the swift of hi feet, he wa rush
through the forefight, until he lost hi life. him in the midst did
fleet-foot nobl achil smite with a javelin, in hi back as he
dart by, where hi belt's golden buckl clasp, and the breast and
back plate overlap: and right through besid the navel went the
spear-head, and he fell on hi knee with a cry, and dark cloud cover
him round about, and he clasp hi bowel to him with hi hand as he
sank.

then when hector saw hi brother polydoro clasp hi bowel with hi
hand, and sink to the earth, a mist fell over hi ey, nor longer
might he endur to rang so far apart, but he came up against achil
brandish hi sharp spear, and like flame of fire. and achil when
he saw him, sprang up, and spake exultingli: "behold the man who hath
deepest stricken into my soul, who slew my dear-prize friend; not long
shall we now shrink from each other along the highwai of the war."

he said, and look grimli spake unto goodli hector: "come thou near,
that the sooner thou mayest arriv at the goal of death."

then to him, unterrifi, said hector of the glanc helm: "son of
peleu, think not with word to affright me as a child, sinc i too know
myself how to speak taunt and unjust speech. and i know that thou art a
man of might, and a far better man than i. yet doth thi issu lie in
the lap of the god, whether i though weaker shall take thy life with my
hurl spear, for mine too hath been found keen er now."

he said, and pois hi spear and hurl it, and athen with a breath
turn it back from gloriou achil, breath veri lightli; and it
came back to goodli hector, and fell there befor hi feet. then
achil set fierc upon him, eager to slai him, cry hi terribl
cry. but apollo caught hector up, veri easili, as a god mai, and hid him
in thick mist. thrice then did fleet-foot nobl achil make onset
with hi spear of bronz, and thrice smote the thick mist. [but when the
fourth time he had come godlik on,] then with dread shout he spake to
him wing word: "dog, thou art now again escap from death; yet came
ill veri nigh thee; but now hath phoebu apollo save thee, to whom thou
must sure prai when thou goest forth amid the clash of spear. verili
i will slai thee yet when i meet thee hereaft, if ani god is helper of
me too. now will i make after the rest, whomsoev i mai seiz."

thu speak he pierc dryop in the midst of hi neck with hi spear,
and he fell down befor hi feet. but he left him where he lai, and
hurl at demucho philetor's son, a good man and a tall, and stai him
with a stroke upon hi knee; then smote him with hi mighti sword and
reft him of life. then spring on laogono and dardano, son of bia,
he thrust both from their chariot to the ground, on with a spear-cast
smite and the other in close battl with hi sword. then tro,
alastor's son--he came and clasp hi knee to prai him to spare him,
and let him live, and slai him not, have compass on hi like
ag, fond fool, and knew not that he might not gain hi prayer; for
nowis soft of heart or tender wa that man, but of fierc mood--with
hi hand he touch achil' knee, eager to entreat him, but he smote
him in the liver with hi sword, and hi liver fell from him, and black
blood therefrom fill hi bosom, and he swoon, and dark cover
hi ey. then achil came near and struck mulio in the ear, and
right through the other ear went the bronz spear-head. then he smote
agenor's son echeklo on the midst of the head with hi hilt sword,
and all the sword grew hot thereat with blood; and dark death seiz hi
ey, and forc fate. then next deukalion, just where the sinew of
the elbow join, there pierc he him through the forearm with hi bronz
spear-head; so abod he with hi arm weigh down, behold death
befor him; and achil smite the neck with hi sword swept far both
head and helm, and the marrow rose out of the backbon, and the corps
lai stretch upon the earth. then went he onward after peir' nobl
son, rhigmo, who had come from deep-soil thrace: him in the midst he
smote with hi hurl javelin, and the point fix in hi lung, and he
fell forth of hi chariot. and areithoo hi squir, as he turn the
hors round, he pierc in the back with hi sharp spear, and thrust
him from the car, and the hors ran wild with fear.

as through deep glen rageth fierc fire on some parch mountain-side,
and the deep forest burneth, and the wind drive it whirleth everi wai
the flame, so rage he everi wai with hi spear, as it had been a god,
press hard on the men he slew; and the black earth ran with blood.
for even as when on yoketh wide-brow bull to tread white barlei in a
stablish thresh-floor, and quickli is it trodden out beneath the
feet of the loud-low bull, thu beneath great-heart achil hi
whole-hoov hors trampl corps and shield togeth; and with
blood all the axletre below wa sprinkl and the rim that ran around
the car, for blood-drop from the hors' hoov splash them, and
blood-drop from the tire of the wheel. but the son of peleu press
on to win him glori, fleck with gore hi irresist hand.



book xxi.

    how achil fought with the river, and chase the men of
    troi within their gate.

but when now thei came unto the ford of the fair-flow river, even
eddi xantho, whom immort zeu begat, there sunder them he
chase the on part to the plain toward the citi, even where the
achaian were fly in affright the dai befor, when gloriou hector
wa in hi furi--thither pour some in flight, and hera spread befor
them thick mist to hinder them:--but half were pent into the
deep-flow silver eddi river, and fell therein with a mighti nois,
and the steep channel sound, and the bank around rang loudli; for
with shout thei swam therein hither and thither whirl round the
eddi. and as when at the rush of fire locust take wing to fly unto a
river, and the unweari fire flameth forth on them with sudden onset,
and thei huddl in the water; so befor achil wa the stream of
deep-eddi xantho fill with the roar and the throng of hors and
men.

then the seed of zeu left behind him hi spear upon the bank, leant
against tamarisk bush, and leapt in, as it were a god, keep hi
sword alon, and devis grim work at heart, and smote as he turn him
everi wai about: and their groan went up ghastli as thei were
stricken by the sword, and the water redden with blood. as befor a
dolphin of huge maw fly other fish and fill the nook of some
fair-haven bai, in terror, for he devoureth amain whichsoev of them
he mai catch; so along the channel of that dread stream the trojan
crouch beneath the precipit side. and when hi hand were weari of
slaughter he chose twelv young men aliv out of the river, an aton
for patroklo, menoitio' son that wa dead. these brought he forth
amaz like fawn, and bound behind them their hand with well-cut
thong, which thei themselv wore on their pliant doublet, and gave
them to hi comrad to lead down to the hollow ship. then again he
made hi onset, athirst for slai.

there met he a son of dardanid priam, in flight out of the river,
lykaon, whom onc himself he took and brought unwil out of hi
father's orchard, in a night assault; he wa cut with keen bronz
young shoot of a wild fig tree, to be hand-rail of a chariot; but to
him an unlook-for bane came goodli achil. and at that time he sold
him into well-peopl lemno, send him on ship board, and the son of
jason gave a price for him; and thenc a guest friend freed him with a
great ransom, eetion of imbro, and sent him to goodli arisb; whenc
fly secretli he came to hi father's hous. eleven dai he rejoic
among hi friend after he wa come from lemno, but on the twelfth onc
more god brought him into the hand of achil, who wa to send him to
the hous of hade though nowis fain to go. him when fleet-foot nobl
achil saw bare of helm and shield, neither had he a spear, but had
thrown all to the ground; for he sweat grievous as he tri to flee
out of the river, and hi knee were fail him for weari: then in
wrath spake achil to hi great heart: "ha! verili great marvel is
thi that i behold with my ey. sure then will the proud trojan whom
i have slain rise up again from beneath the murki gloom, sinc thu hath
thi man come back escap from hi pitiless fate, though sold into
goodli lemno, neither hath the deep of the hoari sea stai him, that
holdeth mani against their will. but come then, of our spear's point
shall he tast, that i mai see and learn in my mind whether likewis he
shall come back even from beneath, or whether the life-give earth
shall hold him down, she that holdeth so even the strong."

thu ponder he in hi place; but the other came near amaz, fain to
touch hi knee, for hi soul long exceedingli to flee from evil death
and black destruct. then goodli achil lift hi long spear with
intent to smite him, but he stoop and ran under it and caught hi
knee; and the spear went over hi back and stood in the ground,
hunger for flesh of men. then lykaon besought him, with on hand
hold hi knee, while with the other he held the sharp spear and
loos it not, and spake to him wing word: "i cry thee merci,
achil; have thou regard and piti for me: to thee, o fosterl of
zeu, am i in the bond of suppliantship. for at thy tabl first i
tast meal of demet on the dai when thou didst take me captiv in the
well-order orchard, and didst sell me awai from my father and my
friend unto goodli lemno, and i fetch thee the price of a hundr
oxen. and now have i been ransom for thrice that, and thi is my
twelfth morn sinc i came to ilio after much pain. now onc again hath
ruinou fate deliv me unto thy hand; sure i must be hate of
father zeu, that he hath given me a second time unto thee; and to short
life my mother bare me, laotho, old alt' daughter--alt who ruleth
among the war-love leleg, hold steep pedaso on the satnioei.
hi daughter priam had to wife, with mani other, and of her were we two
born, and thou wilt butcher both. him among the foremost of the
foot-soldier didst thou lai low, even godlik polydoro, when thou
smotest him with thei sharp spear: and now will it go hard with me here,
for no hope have i to escap thy hand, sinc god hath deliv me
thereunto. yet on thing will i tell thee, and do thou lai it to heart:
slai me not, sinc i am not of the same mother as hector, who slew thy
comrad the gentl and brave."

thu spake to him the nobl son of priam, beseech him with word, but
he heard a voic implac: "fond fool, proffer me no ransom, nor these
word. until patroklo met hi fate dai, then wa it welcom to my
soul to spare the men of troi, and mani i took aliv and sold beyond the
sea: but now there is none shall escap death, whomsoev befor ilio
god shall deliv into my hand--ye, even among all trojan, but
chiefest among priam's son. ay, friend, thou too must die: why
lamentest thou? patroklo is dead, who wa better far than thou. seest
thou not also what manner of man am i for might and goodli? and a
good man wa my father, and a goddess mother bare me. yet over me too
hang death and forc fate. there cometh morn or ev or some noondai
when my life too some man shall take in battl, whether with spear he
smite or arrow from the string."

thu spake he, and the other's knee and heart were unstrung. he let go
achil' spear, and sat with both hand outspread. but achil drew
hi sharp sword and smote on the collar-bone besid the neck, and all
the two-edg sword sank into him, and he lai stretch prone upon the
earth, and blood flow dark from him and soak the earth. him seiz
achil by the foot and sent him down the stream, and over him exult
spake wing word: "there lie thou among the fish, which shall lick
off thy wound's blood heedlessli, nor shall thy mother lai thee on a bed
and mourn for thee, but skamandro shall bear thee on hi eddi into
the broad bosom of the sea. leap along the wave shall mani a fish
dart up to the dark rippl to eat of the white flesh of lykaon. so
perish all, until we reach the citadel of sacr ilio, ye fly and i
behind destroi. nor even the river, fair-flow, silver-eddi,
shall avail you, to whom long time forsooth ye sacrific mani bull, and
among hi eddi throw whole-hoov hors down aliv. for all thi yet
shall ye die the death, until ye pai all for patroklo' slai and the
slaughter of achaian whom at the swift ship ye slew while i tarri
afar."

thu spake he, but the river wax ever more wroth in hi heart, and
sought in hi soul how he should stai goodli achil from hi work, and
ward destruct from the trojan. meanwhil the son of peleu with hi
far-shadow spear leapt, fain to slai him, upon asteropaio son of
pelegon, whom wide-flow axio begat of periboia eldest of the
daughter of akessameno. upon him set achil, and asteropaio stood
against him from the river, hold two spear; for xantho put courag
into hi heart, be anger for the slaughter youth whom achil
wa slaughter along the stream and had no piti on them. then when the
twain were come nigh in onset on each other, unto him first spake
fleet-foot nobl achil: "who and whenc art thou of men, that
darest to come against me? ill-fate ar thei whose children match them
with my might."

and to him, made answer pelegon's nobl son: "high-heart son of
peleu, why askest thou my lineag? i come from deep-soil paionia, a
land far off, lead paionian men with their long spear, and thi now
is the eleventh morn sinc i am come to ilio. my lineag is of
wide-flow axio, who begat pelegon famou with the spear, and he, men
sai, wa my father. now fight we, nobl achil!"

thu spake he in defianc, and goodli achil lift the pelian ash:
but the warrior asteropaio hurl with both spear togeth, for he
could us both hand alik, and with the on spear smote the shield, but
pierc it not right through, for the gold stai it, the gift of a god;
and with the other he graze the elbow of achil' right arm, and there
leapt forth dark blood, but the point beyond him fix itself in the
earth, eager to batten on flesh. then in hi turn achil hurl on
asteropaio hi straight-fly ash, fain to have slain him, but miss
the man and struck the high bank, and quiver half it length in the
bank he left the ashen spear. then the son of peleu drew hi sharp
sword from hi thigh and leapt fierc at him, and he avail not to
draw with hi stout hand achil' ashen shaft from the steep bank.
thrice shook he it strive to draw it forth, and thrice gave up the
strain, but the fourth time he wa fain to bend and break the ashen
spear of the seed of aiako, but er that achil close on him reft
him of life with hi sword. for in the belli he smote him besid the
navel, and all hi bowel gush out to the earth, and dark cover
hi ey as he lai gasp. then achil trampl on hi breast
strip off hi armour and spake exultingli: "lie there! it is hard to
strive against children of krono' mighti son, even though on be sprung
from a river-god. thou truli declarest thyself the seed of a
wide-flow river, but i avow me of the linkag of great zeu. my sire
is a man rule mani myrmidon, peleu the son of aiako, and aiako wa
begotten of zeu. as zeu is mightier than seaward-murmur river, so
is the seed of zeu made mightier than the seed of a river. nai, there
is hard besid thee a great river, if he mai anywis avail; but against
zeu the son of krono it is not possibl to fight. for him not even
king acheloio is match, nor yet the great strength of deep-flow
ocean, from whom all river flow and everi sea, and all spring and deep
well: yea, even he hath fear of the lightn of great zeu and hi
dread thunder, when it pealeth out of heaven."

he said, and from the steep bank drew hi bronz spear, and left there
asteropaio whom he had slain, ly in the sand, and the dark water
flood him. around him eel and fish swarm, tear and gnaw the
fat about hi kidnei. but achil went on after the chariot paion
who still along the eddi river huddl in fear, when thei saw their
best man in the stress of battl slain violent by the hand and the
sword of the son of peleu. there slew he thersilocho and mydon and
astypylo and mneso and thrasio and ainio and ophelest; and more
yet of the paion would swift achil have slain, had not the
deep-eddi river call unto him in wrath, in semblanc of a man, and
from an eddi's depth sent forth a voic: "o achil, thy might and thy
evil work ar beyond the measur of men; for god themselv ar ever
help thee. if inde the son of krono hath deliv thee all the
trojan to destroi, at least drive them forth from me and do thy grim
deed on the plain, for fill with dead men is my pleasant bed, nor
can i pour my stream to the great sea, be choke with dead, and thou
slayest ruthlessli. come then, let be; i am astonish, o captain of
host."

and to him answer achil fleet of foot: "so be it, heaven-sprung
skamandro, even as thou biddest. but the proud trojan i will not ceas
from slai until i have driven them into their citi, and have made
trial with hector face to face whether he is to vanquish me or i him."

thu sai, he set upon the trojan, like a god. then unto apollo spake
the deep-eddi river: "out on it, lord of the silver bow, child of
zeu, thou hast not kept the ordin of krono' son, who charg thee
straitli to stand by the trojan and to help them, until ev come with
light late-set, and darken the deep-soil earth."

he said, and spear-fame achil sprang from the bank and leapt into
hi midst; but he rush on him in a furiou wave, and stir up all
hi stream in tumult, and swept down the mani dead who lai thick in
him, slain by achil; these out to land he cast with bellow like a
bull, and save the live under hi fair stream, hide them within
eddi deep and wide. but terribl around achil aros hi tumultu
wave, and the stream smote violent against hi shield, nor avail he
to stand firm upon hi feet. then he grasp a tall fair-grown elm, and
it fell uproot and tore awai all the bank, and reach over the fair
river bed with it thick shoot, and stem the river himself, fall
all within him: and achil, struggl out of the eddi, made hast to
fly over the plain with hi swift feet, for he wa afraid. but the great
god ceas not, but aros upon him with dark on hi crest, that he
might stai nobl achil from slaughter, and ward destruct from the
men of troi. and the son of peleu rush awai a spear's throw, with the
swoop of a black eagl, the mighti hunter, strongest at onc and
swiftest of wing bird. like him he sped, and on hi breast the bronz
rang terribl as he fled from beneath the onset, and behind him the
river rush on with a mighti roar. as when a field-water from a dark
spring leadeth water along a bed through crop and garden ground, a
mattock in hi hand, cast forth hindranc from the ditch, and as it
floweth all pebbl ar swept down, and swiftli glide it murmureth
down a slope place, and outrunneth him that is it guid:--thu ever
the river wave caught up achil for all hi speed; for god ar
mightier than men. for whensoev fleet-foot nobl achil struggl
to stand against it, and know whether all immort be upon him who
inhabit spaciou heaven, then would a great wave of the heaven-sprung
river beat upon hi shoulder from abov, and he sprang upward with hi
feet, sore vex at heart; and the river wa weari hi knee with
violent rush beneath, devour the earth from under hi feet. then the
son of peleu cri aloud, look up to the broad heaven: "zeu,
father, how doth none of the god take it on him in piti to save me from
the river! after that let come to me what mai. none other of the
inhabit of heaven is chargeabl so much, but onli my dear mother,
who beguil me with fals word, sai that under the wall of the
mail-clad men of troi i must die by the swift arrow of apollo. would
that hector had slain me, the best of men bred here: then brave had been
the slayer, and a brave man had he slain. but now by a sorri death am i
doom to die, pent in thi mighti river, like a swineherd boi whom a
torrent sweepeth down as he essayeth to cross it in a storm."

thu spake he, and quickli poseidon and athen came near and stood
besid him, in the like of men, and take hi hand in their
pledg him in word. and the first that spake wa poseidon, shaker of
the earth: "son of peleu, trembl not, neither be afraid; such helper
of thee ar we from the god, approv of zeu, even palla athen and
i, for to be vanquish of a river is not appoint thee, but he will
soon give back, and thou wilt thyself perceiv it: but we will give thee
wise counsel, if thou wilt obei it; hold not thy hand from hazard
battl until within ilio' famou wall thou have pent the trojan host,
even all that flee befor thee. but do thou, when thou hast taken the
life of hector, go back unto the ship; thi glori we give unto thee to
win."

thei have thu spoken depart to the immort, but he toward the
plain--for the bid of god wa strong upon him--went onward; and all
the plain wa fill with water-flood, and mani beauti arm and
corps of slain youth were drift there. so upward sprang hi knee
as he rush against the stream right on, nor stai him the
wide-flow river, for athen put great strength in him. neither did
skamandro slacken hi fierc, but yet more rage against the son of
peleu, and he curl crestwis the billow of hi stream, lift
himself on high, and on simoei he call with a shout: "dear brother,
the strength of thi man let us both join to stai, sinc quickli he will
lai wast the great citi of king priam, and the trojan abid not in the
battl. help me with speed, and fill thy stream with water from thy
spring, and urg on all thy torrent, and rais up a great wave, and
stir huge roar of tree-stump and stone, that we mai stai the fierc
man who now is lord it, and deem himself match for god. for
neither, i ween, will strength avail him nor comeli anywis, nor
that armour beauti, which deep beneath the flood shall be o'erlaid
with slime, and himself i will wrap him in my sand and pour round him
countless shingl without stint, nor shall the achaian know where to
gather hi bone, so vast a shroud of silt will i heap over them. where
he dieth there shall be hi tomb, neither shall he have need of ani
barrow to be rais, when the achaian make hi funer."

he said, and rush in tumult on achil, rage from on high,
thunder with foam and blood and bodi of dead men. then did a dark
wave of the heaven-sprung river stand tower up and overwhelm the son
of peleu. but hera cri aloud in terror of achil, lest the great
deep-eddi river sweep him awai, and straightwai she call to
hephaisto, her dear son: "rise, lame god, o my son; it wa against thee
we thought that eddi xantho wa match in fight. help with all
speed, put forth larg blast of flame. then will i go to rais a strong
storm out of the sea of the west wind and the white south which shall
utterli consum the dead trojan and their armour, blow the angri
flame. thou along xantho' bank burn up hi tree and wrap himself in
fire, nor let him anywis turn thee back by soft word or by threat, nor
stai thy rage--onli when i cry to thee with my voic, then hold the
unweari fire."

thu spake she, and hephaisto made readi fierc-blaze fire. first on
the plain fire blaze, and burnt the mani dead who lai there thick,
slain by achil; and all the plain wa parch and the bright water
stai. and as when in late summer the north wind swiftli parcheth a new
water orchard, and he that tilleth it is glad, thu wa the whole
plain parch, and hephaisto consum the dead; then against the river
he turn hi gleam flame. elm burnt and willow tree and tamarisk,
and loto burnt and rush and galingal which round the fair stream of
the river grew in multitud. and the eel and fish beneath the eddi
were afflict, which through the fair stream tumbl thi wai and
that, in anguish at the blast of crafti hephaisto. and the strong river
burn, and spake and call to him by name: "hephaisto, there is no
god can match with thee, nor will i fight thee thu ablaz with fire.
ceas strife, yea, let nobl achil drive the trojan forthwith out of
their citi; what have i to do with strife and succour?"

thu spake he, burnt with fire, for hi fair stream were bubbl. and
as a cauldron boileth within, beset with much fire, melt the lard of
some fat hog spurt up on all side, and log of firewood lie
thereund,--so burn hi fair stream in the fire, and the water
boil. he had no mind to flow, but refrain him, for the breath of
cun hephaisto violent afflict him. then unto hera, earnestli
beseech her,' he spake wing word: "hera, wherefor hath thy son
assail my stream to vex it abov other? i am less chargeabl than all
the rest that ar helper of the trojan. but lo, i will give over, if
thou wilt, and let thy son give over too. and i further will swear even
thi, that never will i ward the dai of evil from the trojan, not even
when all troi is burn in the blaze of hungri fire, and the warlik
son of achaian ar the burner thereof."

then when the white-arm goddess hera heard hi speech, straightwai she
spake unto hephaisto her dear son: "hephaisto, hold, fame son; it
befitteth not thu for mortal' sake to do violenc to an immort god."

thu said she and hephaisto quench the fierc-blaze fire, and the
wave onc more roll down the fair river-bed.

so when the rage of xantho wa overcom, both ceas, for hera stai
them, though in wrath. but among the other god fell grievou bitter
strife, and their heart were carri divers in their breast. and thei
clash togeth with a great nois, and the wide earth groan, and the
clarion of great heaven rang around. zeu heard as he sate upon olympu,
and hi heart within him laugh pleasantli when he beheld that strife
of god. then no longer stood thei asund, for ar piercer of shield
began the battl and first made for athen with hi bronz spear, and
spake a taunt word: "wherefor, o dogfli, dost thou match god with
god in strife, with stormi dare, as thy great spirit moveth thee?
rememberest thou not how thou movedst diomed tydeu' son to wound me,
and thyself didst take a visibl spear and thrust it straight at me and
pierc through my fair skin? therefor deem i now that thou shalt pai me
for all that thou hast done."

thu sai he smote on the dread tassel aegi that not even the
lightn of zeu can overcom--thereon smote bloodstain ar with hi
long spear. but she, give back, grasp with stout hand a stone that
lai upon the plain, black, rug, huge, which men of old time set to be
the landmark of a field; thi hurl she, and smote impetu ar on
the neck, and unstrung hi limb. seven rood he cover in hi fall,
and soil hi hair with dust, and hi armour rang upon him. and palla
athen laugh, and spake to him wing word exultingli: "fool, not
even yet hast thou learnt how far better than thou i claim to be, that
thu thou matchest thy might with mine. thu shalt thou satisfi thy
mother's curs, who deviseth mischief against thee in her wrath, for
that thou hast left the achaian and givest the proud trojan's aid."

thu have said she turn from him her shine ey. him did aphrodit
daughter of zeu take by the hand and lead awai, groan continu,
for scarc gather he hi spirit back to him. but when the white-arm
goddess hera wa awar of them, straightwai she spake unto athen wing
word: "out on it, child of aegi-bear zeu, maiden invinc, lo
there the dogfli is lead ar destroy of men out of the frai of
battl down the throng--nai then, pursu her."

she said, and athen sped after her with heart exult, and made at her
and smote her with stout hand upon the breast, and straightwai her knee
and heart were unstrung. so thei twain lai on the bounteou earth, and
she spake wing word exultingli: "such let all be who give the trojan
aid when thei fight against the mail argiv. be thei even so bold and
brave as aphrodit when she came to succour ar and defi my might.
then should we long ago have ceas from war, have laid wast the
stablish citadel of ilio."

[she said, and the white-arm goddess hera smile.] then to apollo
spake the earth-shake lord: "phoebu, why stand we apart? it befitteth
not after the rest have begun: that were the more shame if without
fight we should go to olympu to the bronz-threshold hous of
zeu. begin, for thou art younger; it were not meet for me, sinc i wa
born first and know more. fond god, how foolish is thy heart! thou
rememberest not all the ill we twain alon of god endur at ilio,
when by ordin of zeu we came to proud laomedon and serv him
through a year for promis recompens, and he laid on us hi command.
i round their citi built the trojan a wall, wide and most fair, that
the citi might be unstorm, and thou phoebu, didst herd shambl
crook-horn kine among the spur of woodi mani-fold ida. but when the
joyou season were accomplish the term of hire, then redoubt
laomedon rob us of all hire, and sent us off with threat. he
threaten that he would bind togeth our feet and hand and sell us
into far-off isl, and the ear of both of us he vow to shear off
with the sword. so we went home with angri heart, wroth for the hire he
promis and gave us not. to hi folk not thou showest favour, nor
essayest with us how the proud trojan mai be brought low and perish
miser with their children and nobl wive."

then to him answer king apollo the far-darter: "shaker of the earth,
of no sound mind wouldst thou reput me if i should fight against thee
for the sake of piti mortal, who like unto leav now live in
glow life, consum the fruit of the earth, and now again pine into
death. let us with all speed ceas from combat, and let them do battl
by themselv."

thu sai he turn awai, for he felt shame to deal in blow with hi
father's brother. but hi sister upbraid him sore, the queen of wild
beast, huntress artemi, and spake a taunt word: "so then thou
fleest, far-darter, hast quit yield to poseidon the victori, and
given him glori for naught! fond god, why bearest thou an ineffectu
bow in vain? let me not hear thee again in the hall of our sire boast
as befor among the immort god thou wouldst stand up to fight against
poseidon."

thu spake she, but far-dart apollo answer her not. but angrili the
nobl spous of zeu [upbraid the archer queen with taunt word:]
"how now art thou fain, bold vixen, to set thyself against me? hard were
it for thee to match my might, bow-bearer though thou art, sinc against
women zeu made thee a lion, and giveth thee to slai whomso of them thou
wilt. truli it is better on the mountain to slai wild beast and deer
than to fight amain with mightier than thou. but if thou wilt, try war,
that thou mayest know well how far stronger am i, sinc thou matchest
thy might with mine."

she said, and with her left hand caught both the other's hand by the
wrist, and with her right took the bow from off her shoulder, and
therewith, smile, beat her on the ear as she turn thi wai and
that; and the swift arrow fell out of her quiver. and weep from
befor her the goddess fled like a dove that from befor a falcon flieth
to a hollow rock, a cleft--for she wa not fate to be caught;--thu
artemi fled weep, and left her bow and arrow where thei lai. then
to leto spake the guid, the slayer of argu: "leto, with thee will i no
wise fight; a grievou thing it is to come to blow with wive of
cloud-gather zeu; but boast to thy heart's content among the
immort god that thou didst vanquish me by might and main."

thu said he, and leto gather up the curv bow and arrow fallen
hither and thither amid the whirl of dust: so take her daughter's bow
she went back. and the maiden came to olympu, to the bronz-threshold
hous of zeu, and weep set herself on her father's knee, while round
her her divin vestur quiver: and her father, krono' son, took her
to him and ask of her, laugh gentli: "who of the inhabit of
heaven, dear child, hath dealt with thee thu [hastili, as though thou
hadst been do some wrong thing openli]?"

and to him in answer spake the fair-crown queen of the echo chase:
"it wa thy wife that buffet me, father, the white-arm hera, from
whom ar strife and content come upon the immort."

thu talk thei unto on anoth. then phoebu apollo enter into
sacr ilio, for he wa troubl for the wall of the well-build citi,
lest the danaan wast it befor it hour upon that dai. but the other
ever-live god went to olympu, some angri and some greatli
triumph, and sat down besid zeu who hideth himself in dark cloud.

now achil wa still slai the trojan, both themselv and their
whole-hoov hors. and as when a smoke goeth up to the broad heaven,
when a citi burneth, kindl by the wrath of god, and causeth toil to
all, and grief to mani, thu caus achil toil and grief to the
trojan. and the old man priam stood on the sacr tower, and wa awar
of dread achil, how befor him the trojan throng in rout, nor wa
ani succour found of them. then with a cry he went down from the tower,
to rous the gallant warder along the wall: "hold open the gate in
your hand until the folk come to the citi in their rout, for close is
achil chase them--now trow i there will be deadli deed. and when
thei ar gather within the wall and ar take breath, then again shut
back the gate-wing firmli build; for i fear lest that murder man
spring in within the wall."

thu spake he, and thei open the gate and thrust back the bolt; and
the gate flung back gave safeti. then apollo leapt forth to the front
that he might ward destruct from the trojan. thei straight for the
citi and the high wall were flee, parch with thirst and dust-grime
from the plain, and achil chase them vehement with hi spear, for
strong frenzi possess hi heart continu, and he thirst to win
him renown. then would the son of the achaian have taken high-gate
troi, had not phoebu apollo arous goodli agenor, antenor's son, a
princ man and strong. in hi heart he put good courag, and himself
stood by hi side that he might ward off the grievou visit of
death, lean against the oak, and he wa shroud in thick mist. so
when agenor wa awar of achil waster of citi, he halt, and hi
heart much waver as he stood; and in troubl he spake to hi great
heart: "ay me, if i flee befor mighti achil, there where the rest
ar driven terror-struck, nathless will he overtak me and slaughter me
as a coward. or what if i leav these to be driven befor achil the
son of peleu, and flee upon my feet from the wall by anoth wai to the
ileian plain, until i come to the spur of ida, and hide me in the
underwood? so then at even, have bath in the river and refresh
me of sweat, i might return to ilio. nai, why doth my heart debat thu
within me? lest he might be awar of me as i get me from the citi for
the plain, and speed after overtak me with swift feet; then will it
no more be possibl to avoid the visit of death, for he is
exceed mighti abov all mankind. what then if in front of the citi i
go forth to meet him? sure hi flesh too is penetr by sharp
bronz, and there is but on life within, and men sai he is mortal,
howbeit zeu the son of krono giveth him renown."

thu sai, he gather himself to await achil, and within him hi
stout heart wa set to strive and fight. as a leopardess goeth forth
from a deep thicket to affront a huntsman, nor is afraid at heart, nor
fleeth when she heareth the bai of hound; for albeit the man first
smite her with thrust or throw, yet even pierc through with the spear
she ceaseth not from her courag until she either grappl or be slain,
so nobl antenor's son, goodli agenor, refus to flee till he should
put achil to the proof, but held befor him the circl of hi shield,
and aim at him with hi spear, and cri aloud: "doubtless thou hopest
in thy heart, nobl achil, on thi dai to sack the citi of the proud
men of troi. fond man, there shall mani woful thing yet be wrought
befor it, for within it we ar mani men and staunch, who in front of
our parent dear and wive and son keep ilio safe; but thou shalt here
meet death, albeit so redoubt and bold a man of war."

he said, and hurl hi sharp spear with weighti hand, and smote him on
the leg beneath the knee, nor miss hi mark, and the greav of
new-wrought tin rang terribl on him; but the bronz bound back from
him it smote, nor pierc him, for the god's gift drave it back. then
the son of peleu in hi turn made at godlik agenor, but apollo
suffer him not to win renown, but caught awai agenor, and shroud him
in thick mist, and sent him in peac to be gone out of the war. then by
wile kept the son of peleu awai from the folk, for in complet
semblanc of agenor himself he stood befor the feet of achil, who
hast to run upon him and chase him. and while he chase him over the
wheat-bear plain, edg him toward the deep-eddi river
skamandro, as he ran but a littl in front of him (for by wile apollo
beguil him that he kept ever hope to overtak him in the race),
meantim the other trojan in common rout came gladli unto their
fast, and the citi wa fill with the throng of them. neither had
thei heart to await on anoth outsid the citi and wall, and to know
who might have escap and who had perish in the fight, but
impetu thei pour into the citi, whomsoev of them hi feet and
knee might save.



book xxii.

    how achil fought with hector, and slew him, and brought
    hi bodi to the ship.

thu thei throughout the citi, scare like fawn, were cool their
sweat and drink and slake their thirst, lean on the fair
battlement, while the achaian drew near the wall, set shield to
shoulder. but hector deadli fate bound to abid in hi place, in front
of ilio and the skaian gate. then to the son of peleu spake phoebu
apollo: "wherefor, son of peleu, pursuest thou me with swift feet,
thyself be mortal and i a deathless god? thou hast not even yet known
me, that i am a god, but strivest vehement. truli thou regardest not
thy task among the afflict of the trojan whom thou affrightedst, who
now ar gather into the citi, while thou heat wander hither. me thou
wilt never slai, for i am not subject unto death."

then mightili move spake unto him achil fleet of foot: "thou hast
baulk me, far-darter, most mischiev of all the god, in that thou
hast turn me hither from the wall: els should full mani yet have
bitten the dust or ever within ilio had thei come. now hast thou rob
me of great renown, and lightli hast save them, becaus thou hadst no
vengeanc to fear thereaft. verili i would aveng me on thee, had i
but the power."

thu sai toward the citi he wa gone in pride of heart, rush like
some victori hors in a chariot, that runneth lightli at full speed
over the plain; so swiftli pli achil hi feet and knee. him the
old man priam first beheld as he sped across the plain, blaze as the
star that cometh forth at harvest-time, and plain seen hi rai shine
forth amid the host of star in the dark of night, the star whose
name men call orion's dog. brightest of all is he, yet for an evil sign
is he set, and bringeth much fever upon hapless men. even so on
achil' breast the bronz gleam as he ran. and the old man cri
aloud and beat upon hi head with hi hand, rais them on high, and
with a cry call aloud beseech hi dear son; for he befor the gate
wa stand, all hot for battl with achil. and the old man spake
piteous unto him, stretch forth hi hand: "hector, belov son, i
prai thee await not thi man alon with none besid thee, lest thou
quickli meet thy doom, slain by the son of peleu, sinc he is mightier
far, a merciless man. would the god love him even as do i! then
quickli would dog and vultur devour him on the field--therebi would
cruel pain go from my heart--the man who hath bereft me of mani valiant
son, slai them and sell them captiv into far-off isl. ay even
now twain of my children, lykaon and polydoro, i cannot see among the
trojan that throng into the fast, son whom laotho bare me, a
princess among women. if thei be yet aliv amid the enemi's host, then
will we ransom them with bronz and gold, for there is store within, for
much good gave the old man famou alt to hi child. if thei be dead,
then even in the hous of hade shall thei be a sorrow to my soul and to
their mother, even to us who gave them birth, but to the rest of the
folk a briefer sorrow, if but thou die not by achil' hand. nai, come
within the wall, my child, that thou preserv the men and women of troi,
neither give great triumph to the son of peleu, and be thyself bereft
of sweet life. have compass also on me, the helpless on, who still
can feel, ill-fate; whom the father, krono' son, will bring to naught
by a grievou doom in the path of old ag, have seen full mani ill,
hi son perish and hi daughter carri awai captiv, and hi
chamber laid wast and infant children hurl to the ground in terribl
war, and hi son' wive drag awai by the ruinou hand of the
achaian. myself then last of all at the street door will raven dog
tear, when some on by stroke or throw of the sharp bronz hath bereft
my limb of life--even the dog i rear in my hall about my tabl and
to guard my door, which then have drunk my blood, madden at heart
shall lie in the gatewai. a young man all beseemeth, even to be slain in
war, to be torn by the sharp bronz and lie on the field; though he be
dead yet is all honour to him, whate'er be seen: but when dog
defil the hoari head and hoari beard of an old man slain, thi is the
most piteou thing that cometh upon hapless men."

thu spake the old man, and grasp hi hoari hair, pluck them from
hi head, but he persuad not hector's soul. then hi mother in her turn
wail tearfulli, loosen the fold of her robe, while with the other
hand she show her breast; and through her tear spake to him wing
word: "hector, my child, have regard unto thi bosom and piti me, if
ever i gave thee consol of my breast. think of it, dear child, and
from thi side the wall drive back the foe, nor stand in front to meet
him. he is merciless; if he slai thee it will not be on a bed that i or
thy wife shall bewail thee, my own dear child, but far awai from us by
the ship of the argiv will swift dog devour thee."

thu thei with wail spake to their dear son, beseech him sore, yet
thei persuad not hector's soul, but he stood await achil as he
drew nigh in giant might. as a serpent of the mountain upon hi den
awaiteth a man, have fed on evil poison, and fell wrath hath enter
into him, and terribl he glare as he coileth himself about hi den, so
hector with courag unquench gave not back, lean hi shine
shield against a jut tower. then sore troubl he spake to hi great
heart: "ay me, if i go within the gate and wall, polydama will be
first to bring reproach against me, sinc he bade me lead the trojan to
the citi dure thi ruinou night, when nobl achil aros. but i
regard him not, yet sure it had been better far. and now that i have
undon the host by my wanton, i am asham befor the men of troi
and women of trail robe, lest at ani time some wors man than i
shall sai: 'hector by trust hi own might undid the host.' so will
thei speak; then to me would it be better far to face achil and
either slai him and go home, or myself die glorious befor the citi.
or what if i lai down my bossi shield and my stout helm, and lean my
spear against the wall, and go of myself to meet nobl achil and
promis him that helen, and with her all possess that alexandro
brought in hollow ship to troi, the begin of strife, we will give
to the son of atreu to take awai, and therewith to divid in half
with the achaian all els that thi citi holdeth: and if thereaft i
obtain from the trojan an oath of the elder that thei will hide
noth but divid all in twain [whatev wealth the pleasant citi hold
within]? but wherefor doth my heart debat thu? i might come unto him
and he would not piti or regard me at all, but present slai me unarm
as it were but a woman, if i put off my armour. no time is it now to
dalli with him from oaktre or from rock, like youth with maiden, as
youth and maiden hold dallianc on with anoth. better is it to join
battl with all speed: let us know upon which of us twain the olympian
shall bestow renown."

thu ponder he as he stood, but nigh on him came achil, peer of
enyalio warrior of the wave helm, brandish from hi right shoulder
the pelian ash, hi terribl spear; and all around the bronz on him
flash like the gleam of blaze fire or of the sun as he ariseth. and
trembl seiz hector as he wa awar of him, nor endur he to abid
in hi place, but left the gate behind him and fled in fear. and the
son of peleu dart after him, trust in hi swift feet. as a falcon
upon the mountain, swiftest of wing thing, swoopeth fleetli after a
trembl dove; and she befor him fleeth, while he with shrill scream
hard at hand still darteth at her, for hi heart urgeth him to seiz
her; so achil in hot hast flew straight for him, and hector fled
beneath the trojan' wall, and pli swift knee. thei past the
watch-place and wind-wave wild fig-tree sped ever, awai from under the
wall, along the waggon-track, and came to the two fair-flow spring,
where two fountain rise that feed deep-eddi skamandro. the on
floweth with warm water, and smoke goeth up therefrom around as it were
from a blaze fire, while the other even in summer floweth forth like
cold hail or snow or ic that water formeth. and there besid the
spring ar broad wash-trough hard by, fair trough of stone, where
wive and fair daughter of the men of troi were wont to wash bright
raiment, in the old time of peac, befor the son of the achaian came.
therebi thei ran, he fly, he pursu. valiant wa the flier but far
mightier he who fleetli pursu him. for not for beast of sacrific or
for an oxhid were thei strive, such as ar prize for men's speed of
foot, but for the life of hors-tame hector wa their race. and as
when victori whole-hoov hors run rapidli round the
turn-point, and some great prize lieth in sight, be it a tripod or a
woman, in honour of a man that is dead, so thrice around priam's citi
circl those twain with fly feet, and all the god were gaze on
them. then among them spake first the father of god and men: "ay me, a
man belov i see pursu around the wall. my heart is woe for hector,
who hath burnt for me mani thigh of oxen amid the crest of mani-fold
ida, and other time on the citi-height; but now is goodli achil
pursu him with swift feet round priam's town. come, give your
counsel, god, and devis whether we shall save him from death or now at
last slai him, valiant though he be, by the hand of achil peleu'
son."

then to him answer the bright-ei goddess athen: "o father, lord of
the bright lightn and the dark cloud, what is thi thou hast said? a
man that is a mortal, doom long ago by fate, wouldst thou redeem back
from ill-bode death? do it, but not all we other god approv."

and unto her in answer spake cloud-gather zeu: "be of good cheer,
trito-born, dear child: not in full earnest speak i, and i would fain be
kind to thee. do as seemeth good to thy mind, and draw not back."

thu sai he rous athen, that alreadi wa set thereon, and from the
crest of olympu she dart down.

but after hector sped fleet achil chase him vehement. and as when
on the mountain a hound hunteth the fawn of a deer, have start it
from it covert, through glen and glade, and if it crouch to baffl
him under a bush, yet scent it out the hound runneth constantli until
he find it; so hector baffl not peleu' fleet-foot son. oft as he
set himself to dart under the well-built wall over against the
dardanian gate, if hapli from abov thei might succour him with dart,
so oft would achil gain on him and turn him toward the plain, while
himself he sped ever on the citi-side. and as in a dream on faileth in
chase of a fly man, the on faileth in hi flight and the other in
hi chase--so fail achil to overtak him in the race, and hector to
escap. and thu would hector have avoid the visit of death, had
not thi time been utterli the last wherein apollo came nigh to him, who
nerv hi strength and hi swift knee. for to the host did nobl
achil sign with hi head, and forbad them to hurl bitter dart
against hector, lest ani smite him should gain renown, and he himself
come second. but when the fourth time thei had reach the spring, then
the father hung hi golden balanc, and set therein two lot of dreari
death, on of achil, on of hors-tame hector, and held them by the
midst and pois. then hector's fate dai sank down, and fell to the
hous of hade, and phoebu apollo left him. but to peleu' son came the
bright-ei goddess athen, and stand near spake to him wing word:
"now verili, gloriou achil dear to zeu, i have hope that we twain
shall carri off great glori to the ship for the achaian, have slain
hector, for all hi thirst for fight. no longer is it possibl for him
to escap us, not even though far-dart apollo should travail sore,
grovel befor the father, aegi-bear zeu. but do thou now stand
and take breath, and i will go and persuad thi man to confront thee in
fight."

thu spake athen, and he obei, and wa glad at heart, and stood
lean on hi bronz-point ashen-spear. and she left him and came to
nobl hector, like unto deiphobo in shape and in strong voic, and
stand near spake to him wing word: "dear brother, verili fleet
achil doth thee violenc, chase thee round priam's town with swift
feet: but come let us make a stand and await him on our defenc."

then answer her great hector of the glanc helm: "deiphobo, verili
aforetim wert thou far dearest of my brother, but now methink i shall
honour thee even more, in that thou hast dare for my sake, when thou
sawest me, to come forth of the wall, while the other tarri within."

then to him again spake the bright-ei goddess athen: "dear brother,
of a truth my father and ladi mother and my comrad around besought me
much, entreat me in turn, to tarri there, so greatli do thei all
trembl befor him; but my heart within wa sore with dismal grief. and
now fight we with straight-set resolv and let there be no spare of
spear, that we mai know whether achil is to slai us and carri our
bloodi spoil to the hollow ship, or whether he might be vanquish by
thy spear."

thu sai athen in her subtleti led him on. and when thei were come
nigh in onset on on anoth, to achil first spake great hector of
the glanc helm: "no longer, son of peleu, will i fly thee, as befor
i thrice ran round the great town of priam, and endur not to await thy
onset. now my heart biddeth me stand up against thee; i will either slai
or be slain. but come hither and let us pledg us by our god, for thei
shall be best wit and behold of coven: i will entreat thee
in no outrag sort, if zeu grant me to outstai thee, and if i take
thy life, but when i have despoil thee of thy gloriou armour, o
achil, i will give back thy dead bodi to the achaian, and do thou
the same."

but unto him with grim gaze spake achil fleet of foot: "hector, talk
not to me, thou madman, of coven. as between men and lion there is
no pledg of faith, nor wolv and sheep can be of on mind, but imagin
evil continu against each other, so is it imposs for thee and me
to be friend, neither shall be ani pledg between us until on or other
shall have fallen and glut with blood ar, the stubborn god of war.
bethink thee of all thy soldiership: now behoveth it thee to quit thee
as a good spearman and valiant man of war. no longer is there wai of
escap for thee, but palla athen will straightwai subdu thee to my
spear; and now in on hour shalt thou pai back for all my sorrow for my
friend whom thou hast slain in the furi of thy spear."

he said, and pois hi far-shadow spear and hurl. and nobl hector
watch the come thereof and avoid it; for with hi ey on it he
crouch, and the bronz spear flew over him, and fix itself in the
earth; but palla athen caught it up and gave it back to achil,
unknown of hector shepherd of host. then hector spake unto the nobl
son of peleu: "thou hast miss, so no wise yet, godlik achil, ha
thou known from zeu the hour of my doom, though thou thoughtest it.
cun of tongu art thou and a deceiv in speech, that fear thee i
might forget my valour and strength. not as i flee shalt thou plant thy
spear in my rein, but drive it straight through my breast as i set on
thee, if god hath given thee to do it. now in thy turn avoid my spear of
bronz. o that thou mightst take it all into thy flesh! then would the
war be lighter to the trojan, if but thou wert dead, for thou art their
greatest bane."

he said, and pois hi long-shadow spear and hurl it, and smote the
midst of the shield of peleu' son, and miss him not: but far from the
shield the spear leapt back. and hector wa wroth that hi swift weapon
had left hi hand in vain, and he stood downcast, for he had no second
ashen spear. and he call with a loud shout to deiphobo of the white
shield, and ask of him a long spear, but he wa no wise nigh. then
hector knew he truth in hi heart, and spake and said: "ay me, now
verili the god have summon me to death. i deem the warrior
deiphobo wa by my side, but he is within the wall, and it wa athen
who plai me fals. now therefor is evil death come veri nigh me, not
far off, nor is there wai of escap. thi then wa from of old the
pleasur of zeu and of the far-dart son of zeu, who yet befor were
fain to succour me: but now my fate hath found me. at least let me not
die without a struggl or inglori, but in some great deed of arm
whereof men yet to be born shall hear."

thu sai he drew hi sharp sword that by hi flank hung great and
strong, and gather himself and swoop like a soar eagl that
darteth to the plain through the dark cloud to seiz a tender lamb or
crouch hare. so hector swoop, brandish hi sharp sword. and
achil made at him, for hi heart wa fill with wild fierc, and
befor hi breast he made a cover with hi fair graven shield, and
toss hi bright four-plate helm; and round it wave fair golden
plume [that hephaisto had set thick about the crest.]. as a star goeth
among star in the dark of night, hespero, fairest of all star set
in heaven, so flash there forth a light from the keen spear achil
pois in hi right hand, devis mischief against nobl hector, ey
hi fair flesh to find the fittest place. now for the rest of him hi
flesh wa cover by the fair bronz armour he strip from strong
patroklo when he slew him, but there wa an open where the collar
bone come from the shoulder clasp the neck, even at the gullet,
where destruct of life cometh quickliest; there, as he came on, nobl
achil drave at him with hi spear, and right through the tender neck
went the point. yet the bronz-weight ashen spear clave not the
windpip, so that he might yet speak word of answer to hi foe. and he
fell down in the dust, and nobl achil spake exultingli: "hector,
thou thoughtest, whilst thou wert spoil patroklo, that thou wouldst
be safe, and didst reck noth of me who wa afar, thou fool. but awai
among the hollow ship hi comrad, a mightier far, even i, wa left
behind, who now have unstrung thy knee. thee shall dog and bird tear
foulli, but hi funer shall the achaian make."

then with faint breath spake unto him hector of the glanc helm: "i
prai thee by thy life and knee and parent leav me not for dog of the
achaian to devour by the ship, but take good store of bronz and gold,
gift that my father and ladi mother shall give to thee, and give them
home my bodi back again, that the trojan and trojan' wive give me my
due of fire after my death."

but unto him with grim gaze spake achil fleet of foot: "entreat me
not, dog, by knee or parent. would that my heart's desir could so bid
me myself to carv and eat raw thy flesh, for the evil thou hast wrought
me, as sure is there none that shall keep the dog from thee, not even
should thei bring ten or twenti fold ransom and here weigh it out, and
promis even more, not even were priam dardano' son to bid pai thy
weight in gold, not even so shall thy ladi mother lai thee on a bed to
mourn her son, but dog and bird shall devour thee utterli."

then dy spake unto him hector of the glanc helm: "verili i know
thee and behold thee as thou art, nor wa i destin to persuad thee;
truli thy heart is iron in thy breast. take heed now lest i draw upon
thee wrath of god, in the dai when pari and phoebu apollo slai thee,
for all thy valour, at the skaian gate."

he end, and the shadow of death came down upon him, and hi soul flew
forth of hi limb and wa gone to the hous of hade, wail her fate,
leav her vigour and youth. then to the dead man spake nobl achil:
"die: for my death, i will accept it whensoev zeu and the other
immort god ar mind to accomplish it."

he said, and from the corps drew forth hi bronz spear, and set it
asid, and strip the bloodi armour from the shoulder. and other son
of achaian ran up around, who gaze upon the statur and marvel
goodli of hector. nor did ani stand by but wound him, and thu
would mani a man sai look toward hi neighbour: "go to, of a truth
far easier to handl is hector now than when he burnt the ship with
blaze fire." thu would mani a man sai, and wound him as he stood hard
by. and when fleet nobl achil had despoil him, he stood up among
the achaian and spake wing word: "friend, chief and counsellor of
the argiv, sinc the god have vouchsaf us to vanquish thi man who
hath done us more evil than all the rest togeth, come let us make
trial in arm round about the citi, that we mai know somewhat of the
trojan' purpos, whether sinc he hath fallen thei will forsak the
citadel, or whether thei ar mind to abid, albeit hector is no more.
but wherefor doth my heart debat thu? there lieth by the ship a dead
man unbewail, unburi, patroklo; him will i not forget, while i
abid among the live and my knee can stir. nai if even in the hous
of hade the dead forget their dead, yet will i even there be mind of
my dear comrad. but come, ye son of the achaian, let us now, sing
our song of victori, go back to the hollow ship and take with us our
foe. great glori have we won; we have slain the nobl hector, unto whom
the trojan prai throughout their citi, as he had been a god."

he said, and devis foul entreat of nobl hector. the tendon of
both feet behind he slit from heel to ankl-joint, and thrust
therethrough thong of ox-hide, and bound him to hi chariot, leav
hi head to trail. and when he had mount the chariot and lift
therein the famou armour, he lash hi hors to speed, and thei
noth loth flew on. and dust rose around him that wa drag, and hi
dark hair flow loos on either side, and in the dust lai all hi onc
fair head, for now had zeu given him over to hi foe to entreat foulli
in hi own nativ land.

thu wa hi head all grime with dust. but hi mother when she beheld
her son, tore her hair and cast far from her her shine veil, and cri
aloud with an exceed bitter cry. and piteous moan hi father, and
around them the folk fell to cry and moan throughout the town.
most like it seem as though all beetl ilio were burn utterli in
fire. scarc could the folk keep back the old man in hi hot desir to
get him forth of the dardanian gate. for he besought them all, cast
himself down in the mire, and call on each man by hi name: "hold,
friend, and though you love me leav me to get me forth of the citi
alon and go unto the ship of the achaian. let me prai thi accurs
horror-work man, if hapli he mai feel shame befor hi ag-fellow
and piti an old man. he also hath a father such as i am, peleu, who
begat and rear him to be a bane of trojan--and most of all to me hath
he brought woe. so mani son of mine hath he slain in their flower--yet
for all my sorrow for the rest i mourn them all less than thi on
alon, for whom my sharp grief will bring me down to the hous of
hade--even hector. would that he had di in my arm; then would we
have wept and wail our fill, hi mother who bore him to her ill hap,
and i myself."

thu spake he wail, and all the men of the citi made moan with him.
and among the women of troi, hekab led the wild lament: "my child, ah,
woe is me! wherefor should i live in my pain, now thou art dead, who
night and dai wert my boast through the citi, and bless to all, both
men and women of troi throughout the town, who hail thee as a god, for
verili an exceed glori to them wert thou in thy life:--now death and
fate have overtaken thee."

thu spake she wail. but hector's wife knew not as yet, for no true
messeng had come to tell her how her husband abod without the gate,
but in an inner chamber of the lofti hous she wa weav a doubl
purpl web, and broider therein manifold flower. then she call to
her goodli-hair handmaid through the hous to set a great tripod on
the fire, that hector might have warm wash when he came home out of
the battl fond heart, and wa unawar how, far from all wash,
bright-ei athen had slain him by the hand of achil. but she heard
shriek and groan from the battlement, and her limb reel, and the
shuttl fell from her hand to earth. then again among her goodli-hair
maid she spake: "come two of ye thi wai with me that i mai see what
deed ar done. it wa the voic of my husband's nobl mother that i
heard, and in my own breast my heart leapeth to my mouth and my knee
ar numb beneath me: sure some evil thing is at hand against the
children of priam. would that such word might never reach my ear! yet
terribl i dread lest nobl achil have cut off bold hector from the
citi by himself and chase him to the plain and er thi end hi
peril pride that possess him, for never would he tarri among the
throng of men but ran out befor them far, yield place to no man in
hi hardihood."

thu sai she sped through the chamber like on mad, with beat
heart, and with her went her handmaiden. but when she came to the
battlement and the throng of men, she stood still upon the wall and
gaze, and beheld him drag befor the citi:--swift hors drag him
recklessli toward the hollow ship of the achaian. then dark night came
on her ey and shroud her, and she fell backward and gasp forth her
spirit. from off her head she shook the bright attir thereof,
frontlet and net and woven band, and veil, the veil that golden
aphrodit gave her on the dai when hector of the glanc helm led her
forth of the hous of eetion, have given bride-gift untold. and
around her throng her husband's sister and hi brother' wive, who
held her up among them, distraught even to death. but when at last she
came to herself and her soul return into her breast, then wail with
deep sob she spake among the women of troi: "o hector, woe is me! to
on fate then were we both born, thou in troi in the hous of priam, and
i in thebe under woodi plako, in the hous of eetion, who rear me
from a littl on--ill-fate sire of cruel-fate child. ah, would he
have begotten me not. now thou to the hous of hade beneath the secret
place of the earth departest, and me in bitter mourn thou leavest a
widow in thy hall: and thy son is but an infant child--son of unhappi
parent, thee and me--nor shalt thou profit him, hector, sinc thou art
dead, neither he thee. for even if he escap the achaian' woful war,
yet shall labour and sorrow cleav unto him hereaft, for other men
shall seiz hi land. the dai of orphanag sundereth a child from hi
fellow, and hi head is bow down ever, and hi cheek ar wet with
tear. and in hi need the child seeketh hi father's friend, pluck
thi on by cloak and that by coat, and on of them that piti him
holdeth hi cup a littl to hi mouth, and moisteneth hi lip, but hi
palat he moisteneth not. and some child unorphan thrusteth him from
the feast with blow and taunt word, 'out with thee! no father of
thine is at our board.' then weep to hi widow mother shall he
return, even astyanax, who erst upon hi father's knee at onli marrow
and fat flesh of sheep; and when sleep fell on him and he ceas from
childish plai, then in bed in hi nurs's arm he would slumber softli
nest, have satisfi hi heart with good thing; but now that he
hath lost hi father he will suffer mani ill, astyanax--that name the
trojan gave him, becaus thou onli wet the defenc of their gate and
their long wall. but now by the beak ship, far from thy parent,
shall coil worm devour thee when the dog have had their fill, as
thou liest nake; yet in these hall lieth raiment of thine, delic
and fair, wrought by the hand of women. but verili all these will i
consum with burn fire--to thee no profit, sinc thou wilt never lie
therein, yet that hi be honour to thee from the men and the women of
troi."

thu spake she wail, and the women join their moan.



book xxiii.

    of the funer of patroklo, and the funer game.

thu thei throughout the citi made moan: but the achaian when thei were
come to the ship and to the hellespont were scatter each to hi own
ship: onli the myrmidon achil suffer not to be scatter, but
spake among hi comrad whose delight wa in war: "fleet-hors
myrmidon, my trusti comrad, let us not yet unyok our whole-hoov
steed from their car, but with hors and chariot let us go near and
mourn patroklo, for such is the honour of the dead. then when we have
our fill of grievou wail, we will unyok the hors and all sup
here."

he said, and thei with on accord made lament, and achil led
their mourn. so thrice around the dead thei drave their well-mane
steed, moan; and theti stir among them desir of wail.
bedew were the sand with tear, bedew the warrior' arm; so great
a lord of fear thei sorrow for. and peleu' son led their loud wail,
lai hi man-slai hand on hi comrad's breast: "all hail,
patroklo, even in the hous of hade; for all that i promis thee
befor am i accomplish, see i have drag hither hector to give
raw unto dog to devour, and twelv nobl children of the trojan to
slaughter befor thy pyre, becaus of mine anger at thy slai."

he said, and devis foul entreat of nobl hector, stretch him
prone in the dust besid the bier of menoitio' son. and the rest put
off each hi glitter bronz arm, and unyok their high-neigh
hors, and sate them down numberless besid the ship of fleet-foot
aiakid, and he gave them ampl funer feast. mani sleek oxen were
stretch out, their throat cut with steel, and mani sheep and bleat
goat, and mani white-tusk boar well grown in fat were spit to
sing in the flame of hephaisto; so on all side round the corps in
cup blood wa flow.

but the fleet-foot princ, the son of peleu, wa brought to nobl
agamemnon by the achaian chief, hardli persuad him thereto, for hi
heart wa wroth for hi comrad. and when thei were come to agamemnon's
hut, forthwith thei bade clear-voic herald set a great tripod on the
fire, if hapli thei might persuad the son of peleu to wash from him
the bloodi gore. but he deni them steadfastli, and sware moreov an
oath: "nai, verili by zeu, who is highest and best of god, not law
is it that water should come nigh my head or ever i shall have laid
patroklo on the fire, and heap a barrow, and shave my hair, sinc
never again shall second grief thu reach my heart, while i remain among
the live. yet now for the present let us yield us to our mourn
meal: but with the morn, o king of men agamemnon, rous the folk to
bring wood and furnish all that it beseemeth a dead man to have when he
goeth beneath the misti gloom, to the end that untir fire mai burn
him quickli from sight, and the host betak them to their work."

thu spake he, and thei listen readili to him and obei, and eagerli
make readi each hi meal thei sup, and no lack had their soul of
equal feast. but when thei had put off from them the desir of meat and
drink, the rest went down each man to hi tent to take hi rest, but the
son of peleu upon the beach of the sound sea lai groan heavili,
amid the host of myrmidon, in an open place, where wave were break
on the shore. now when sleep took hold on him, eas the care of hi
heart, deep sleep that fell about him, (for sore tire were hi gloriou
knee with onset upon hector toward windi ilio), then came there unto
him the spirit of hapless patroklo, in all thing like hi live self,
in statur, and fair ey, and voic, and the raiment of hi bodi wa
the same; and he stood abov achil' head and spake to him: "thou
sleepest, and hast forgotten me, o achil. not in my life wast thou
ever unmind of me, but in my death. buri me with all speed, that i
pass the gate of hade. far off the spirit banish me, the phantom of
men outworn, nor suffer me to mingl with them beyond the river, but
vainli i wander along the wide-gate dwell of hade. now give me, i
prai pitifulli of thee, thy hand, for never more again shall i come back
from hade, when ye have given me my due of fire. never among the live
shall we sit apart from our dear comrad and take counsel togeth, but
me hath the harsh fate swallow up which wa appoint me even from my
birth. yea and thou too thyself, achil peer of god, beneath the wall
of the nobl trojan art doom to die. yet on thing will i sai, and
charg thee, if hapli thou wilt have regard thereto. lai not my bone
apart from thine, achil, but togeth, even as we were nurtur in
your hous, when menoitio brought me yet a littl on from opoei to
your countri by reason of a grievou man-slai, on the dai when i slew
amphidama' son, not will it, in childish wrath over the dice. then
took me the knight peleu into hi hous and rear me kindli and name
me thy squir: so therefor let on coffer hide our bone [a golden
coffer, two handl, thy ladi mother's gift]."

then made answer unto him achil fleet of foot: "wherefor, o my
brother, hast thou come hither, and chargest me everyth that i should
do? verili i will accomplish all, and have regard unto thy bid. but
stand more nigh me; for on moment let us throw our arm around each
other, and take our fill of dolor lament."

he spake, and reach forth with hi hand, but clasp him not; for
like a vapour the spirit wa gone beneath the earth with a faint shriek.
and achil sprang up marvel, and smote hi hand togeth, and
spake a word of woe: "ay me, there remaineth then even in the hous of
hade a spirit and phantom of the dead, albeit the life be not anywis
therein: for all night long hath the spirit of hapless patroklo stood
over me, wail and make moan, and charg me everyth that i
should do, and wondrou like hi live self it seem."

thu said he, and stir in all of them yearn to make lament; and
rosi-finger morn shone forth on them while thei still made moan around
the piteou corps. then lord agamemnon sped mule and men from all the
hut to fetch wood; and a man of valour watch thereov, even
merion, squir of kindli idomeneu. and thei went forth with
wood-cut ax in their hand and well-woven rope, and befor them
went the mule, and uphil and downhil and sidewai and across thei
went. but when thei came to the spur of mani-fountain ida,
straightwai thei set them lustili to hew high-foliag oak with the
long-edg bronz, and with loud nois fell the tree. then split
them asund the achaian bound them behind the mule, and thei tore up
the earth with their feet as thei made for the plain through the thick
underwood. and all the wood-cutter bare log; for thu bade merion,
squir of kindli idomeneu. and on the shore thei threw them down in
line, where achil purpos a mighti tomb for patroklo and for
himself.

then when thei had laid down all about great pile of wood, thei sate
them down all togeth and abod. then straightwai achil bade the
warlik myrmidon gird on their arm and each yoke the hors to hi
chariot; and thei aros and put their armour on, and mount their
chariot, both fight men and chariot. in front were the men in
chariot, and a cloud of footmen follow after, numberless; and in the
midst hi comrad bare patroklo. and thei heap all the corps with
their hair that thei cut off and threw thereon; and behind did goodli
achil bear the head, sorrow; for a nobl comrad wa he speed
forth unto the realm of hade.

and when thei came to the place where achil had bidden them, thei set
down the dead, and pile for him abund wood. then fleet-foot nobl
achil bethought him of on thing more: stand apart from the pyre
he shore off a golden lock, the lock whose growth he nurs to offer
unto the river spercheio, and sore troubl spake be, look forth
over the wine-dark sea: "spercheio, in other wise vow my father
peleu unto thee that i return thither to my nativ land should shear
my hair for thee and offer a holi hecatomb, and fifti ram should
sacrific there abov thy spring, where is the sacr close and altar
burn spice. so vow the old man, but thou hast not accomplish him
hi desir. and now sinc i return not to my dear nativ land, unto the
hero patroklo i mai give thi hair to take awai."

thu sai he set the hair in the hand of hi dear comrad, and
stir in all of them yearn to make lament. and so would the light
of the sun have gone down on their lament, had not achil said
quickli to agamemnon as he stood besid him: "son of atreu--for to thy
word most will the host of the achaian have regard--of lament
thei mai sate them to the full. but now dispers them from the burn
and bid them make readi their meal, and we to whom the dead is dearest
will take pain for these thing; yet let the chief tarri nigh unto
us."

then when agamemnon king of men heard that, he forthwith dispers the
host among the trim ship, but the nearest to the dead tarri there and
pile the wood, and made a pyre a hundr feet thi wai and that, and on
the pyre's top set the corps, with anguish at their heart. and mani
lusti sheep and shambl crook-horn oxen thei flai and made readi
befor the pyre; and take from all of them the fat, great heart
achil wrap the corps therein from head to foot, and heap the
flai bodi round. and he set therein two-handl jar of honei and
oil, lean them against the bier; and four strong-neck hors he
threw swiftli on the pyre, and groan aloud. nine hous-dog had the
dead chief: of them did achil slai twain and throw them on the pyre.
and twelv valiant son of great-heart trojan he slew with the
sword--for he devis mischief in hi heart and he set to the merciless
might of the fire, to feed thereon. then moan he aloud, and call on
hi dear comrad by hi name: "all hail to thee, o patroklo, even in
the hous of hade, for all that i promis thee befor am i now
accomplish. twelv valiant son of great-heart trojan, behold
these all in compani with thee the fire devoureth: but hector son of
priam will i nowis give to the fire to feed upon, but to dog."

thu spake he threaten, but no dog might deal with hector, for dai
and night aphrodit daughter of zeu kept off the dog, and anoint him
with rose-sweet oil ambrosi that achil might not tear him when he
drag him. and over him phoebu apollo brought a dark cloud from
heaven to earth and cover all that place whereon the dead man lai,
lest meanwhil the sun's strength shrivel hi flesh round about upon hi
sinew and limb.

but the pyre of dead patroklo kindl not. then fleet-foot nobl
achil had a further thought: stand asid from the pyre he prai
to the two wind of north and west, and promis them fair offer,
and pour larg libat from a golden cup besought them to come,
that the corps might blaze up speedili in the fire, and the wood make
hast to be enkindl. then iri, when she heard hi prayer, went
swiftli with the messag to the wind. thei within the hous of the
gusti west wind were feast all togeth at meat, when iri sped
thither, and halt on the threshold of stone. and when thei saw her
with their ey, thei sprang up and call to her everi on to sit by
him. but she refus to sit, and spake her word: "no seat for me; i must
go back to the stream of ocean, to the ethiopian' land where thei
sacrific hecatomb to the immort god, that i too mai feast at their
rite. but achil is prai the north wind and the loud west to come,
and promis them fair offer, that ye mai make the pyre be kindl
whereon lieth patroklo, for whom all the achaian ar make moan."

she have thu said depart, and thei aros with a mighti sound,
roll the cloud befor them. and swiftli thei came blow over the
sea, and the wave rose beneath their shrill blast; and thei came to
deep-soil troi, and fell upon the pile, and loudli roar the mighti
fire. so all night drave thei the flame of the pyre togeth, blow
shrill; and all night fleet achil, hold a two-handl cup, drew
wine from a golden bowl, and pour it forth and drench the earth,
call upon the spirit of hapless patroklo. as a father waileth when
he burneth the bone of hi son, new-marri, whose death is woe to hi
hapless parent, so wail achil as he burnt the bone of hi
comrad, go heavili round the burn pile, with mani moan.

but at the hour when the morn star goeth forth to herald light upon
the earth, the star that saffron-mantl dawn cometh after, and
spreadeth over the salt sea, then grew the burn faint, and the flame
di down. and the wind went back again to betak them home over the
thracian main, and it roar with a violent swell. then the son of
peleu turn awai from the burn and lai down weari, and sweet
sleep leapt on him. but thei who were with atreu' son gather all
togeth, and the nois and clash of their approach arous him; and he
sate upright and spake a word to them: "son of atreu and ye other
chief of the achaian, first quench with gleam wine all the burn
so far as the fire's strength hath reach, and then let us gather up
the bone of patroklo, menoitio' son, singl them well, and easi ar
thei to discern, for he lai in the middl of the pyre, while the rest
apart at the edg burnt-confusedli, hors and men. and hi bone let us
put within a golden urn, and doubl-fold fat, until that i myself be
hidden in hade. but no huge barrow i bid you toil to rais--a seemli
on, no more: then afterward do ye achaian build it broad and high,
whosoev of you after i am gone mai be left in the bench ship."

thu spake he, and thei hearken to the fleet-foot son of peleu.
first quench thei with gleam wine the burn so far as the flame
went, and the ash had settl deep: then with lament thei gather
up the white bone of their gentl comrad into a golden urn and
doubl-fold fat, and place the urn in the hut and cover it with a
linen veil. and thei mark the circl of the barrow, and set the
foundat thereof around the pyre, and straightwai heap thereon a
heap of earth. then when thei had heap up the barrow thei were for
go back. but achil stai the folk in that place, and made them
sit in wide assembl, and from hi ship he brought forth prize,
caldron and tripod, and hors and mule and strong oxen, and
fair-girdl women, and grei iron.

first for fleet chariot-racer he ordain a nobl prize, a woman
skill in fair handiwork for the winner to lead home, and an ear
tripod that held two-and-twenti measur; these for the first man; and
for the second he ordain a six-year-old mare unbrok with a mule foal
in her womb; and for the third he gave a goodli caldron yet untouch by
fire, hold four measur, bright as when first made; and for the
fourth he ordain two talent of gold; and for the fifth a two-handl
urn untouch of fire, then he stood up and spake a word among the
argiv: "son of atreu and ye other well-greav achaian, for the
chariot-racer these prize lie await them in the list. if in some
other's honour we achaian were now hold our game, it would be i who
should win the first prize and bear it to my hut; for ye know how far my
pair of hors ar first in excel, for thei ar immort and
poseidon gave them to my father peleu, and he again to me. but verili i
will abid, i and my whole-hoov hors, so gloriou a chariot have
thei lost, and on so kind, who on their mane full often pour smooth
oil, when he had wash them in clear water. for him thei stand and
mourn, and their mane ar trail on the ground, and there stand thei
with sorrow at their heart. but ye other throughout the host get ye to
your place, whosoev of the achalan hath trust in hi hors and
firm-joint car."

thu spake the son of peleu, and the fleet chariot-racer were
gather. first of all aros up eumelo king of men, admeto' son, a
skil chariot; and next to him aros tydeu' son, valiant diomed,
and yoke hi hors of the breed of tro, which on a time he seiz
from aineia, when apollo save their lord. and after him aros atreu'
son, fair-hair heaven-sprung menelao, and yoke him a swift pair
aith, agamemnon's mare, and hi own hors podargo. her unto agamemnon
did anchis' son echepolo give in fee, that he might escap from
follow him to windi ilio and take hi pleasur at home; for great
wealth had zeu given him, and he dwelt in sikyon of spaciou lawn:--
so menelao yoke her, and she long exceedingli for the race. and
fourth, antilocho made readi hi fair-mane hors, even the nobl son
of nestor, high-heart king, who wa the son of neleu; and fleet
hors bred at pylo drew hi car. and hi father stand by hi side
spake counsel him to hi profit, though himself wa well advis:
"antilocho, verili albeit thou art young, zeu and poseidon have love
thee and taught thee all skill with hors; wherefor to teach thee is
no great need, for thou well knowest how to wheel round the post; yet
ar thy hors veri slow in the race: therefor methink there will be
sad work for thee. for the hors of the other ar fleeter, yet the men
know not more cun than thou hast. so come, dear son, store thy mind
with all manner of cun, that the prize escap thee not. by cun
is a woodman far better than by forc; by cun doth a helmsman on the
wine-dark deep steer hi swift ship buffet by wind; by cun hath
chariot the better of chariot. for whoso trust in hi hors
and car alon wheeleth heedlessli and wide at either end, hi hors
swerv on the cours, and he keepeth them not in hand. but whoso is of
crafti mind, though he drive wors hors, he ever keep hi ey upon
the post turneth close by it, neither is unawar how far at first to
forc hi hors by the ox-hide rein, but holdeth them safe in hand and
watcheth the leader in the race. now will i tell thee a certain sign,
and it shall not escap thee. a fathom's height abov the ground
standeth a wither stump, whether of oak or pine: it decayeth not in
the rain, and two white stone on either side thereof ar fix at the
join of the track, and all round it is smooth drive ground. whether
it be a monument of some man dead long ago, or have been made their goal
in the race by ancient men, thi now is the mark fix by fleet-foot
achil. wherefor do thou drive close and bear thy hors and chariot
hard thereon, and lean thy bodi on the well-knit car slightli to their
left, and call upon the off-hors with voic and lash, and give him rein
from thy hand. but let the near hors hug the post so that the nave of
the well-wrought wheel seem to graze it--yet bewar of touch the
stone, lest thou wound the hors and break the chariot; so would that
be triumph to the rest and reproach unto thyself. but, dear son, be wise
and on thy guard; for if at the turn-post thou drive past the rest,
there is none shall overtak thee from behind or pass thee by, not
though he drave the goodli arion in pursuit, the fleet hors of
adrasto, of divin descent, or the hors of laomedon, best of all bred
in thi land."

thu spake neleian nestor and sate him down again in hi place, when he
had told hi son the sum of everi matter.

and merion wa the fifth to make readi hi sleek-coat steed. then
went thei up into their chariot, and cast in the lot: and achil
shook them, and forth leapt the lot of antilocho nestor's son, and the
next lot had lord eumelo, and next to him the son of atreu,
spear-fame menelao, and next to him drew merion hi place; then
lastli tydeid, far the best of all, drew hi lot for hi chariot's
place. then thei stood side by side, and achil show to them the
turn post, far off in the smooth plain; and besid it he place an
umpir, godlik phoinix, hi father's follow, that he might note the
run and tell the truth thereof.

then all togeth lift the lash abov their steed, and smote them
with the rein, and call on them eagerli with word: and thei
forthwith sped swiftli over the plain, leav the ship behind; and
beneath their breast stood the rise dust like a cloud or whirlwind,
and their mane wave on the blow wind. and the chariot ran
sometim on the bounteou earth, and other while would bound into the
air. and the driver stood in the car, and the heart of everi man beat
in desir of victori, and thei call everi man to hi hors, that flew
amid their dust across the plain.

but when the fleet hors were now run the last part of the cours,
back toward the grei sea, then wa manifest the prowess of each, and the
hors strain in the race; and present to the front rush the fleet
mare of phere' grandson, and next to them diomed' stallion of the
breed of tro, not far apart, but hard anigh, for thei seem ever as
thei would mount eumelo' car, and with their breath hi back wa warm
and hi broad shoulder, for thei bent their head upon him as thei flew
along. thu would tydeu' son have either outstrip the other or made
it a dead heat, had not phoebu apollo been wroth with him and smitten
from hi hand the shine lash. then from hi ey ran tear of anger,
for that he saw the mare still at speed, even swiftlier than befor,
while hi own hors were thrown out, as run without spur. but
athen wa not unawar of apollo's guil against tydeid, and present
sped after the shepherd of host, and gave him back the lash, and put
spirit into hi steed. then in wrath after the son of admeto wa the
goddess gone, and brake hi steed' yoke, and the mare ran sidewai off
the cours, and the pole wa twist to the ground. and eumelo wa
hurl out of the car besid the wheel, and hi elbow and mouth and
nose were flai, and hi forehead bruis abov hi eyebrow; and hi
ey fill with tear and hi lusti voic wa choke. then tydeid
held hi whole-hoov hors on on side, dart far out befor the
rest, for athen put spirit into hi steed and shed glori on himself.
now next after him came golden-hair menelao atreu' son. but
antilocho call to hi father's hors: "go ye too in, strain to your
fleetest pace. truli i nowis bid you strive with those, the hors of
wise tydeid, unto which athen hath now given speed, and shed glori on
their chariot. but overtak atreid' hors with all hast, and be
not outstrip by them, lest aith that is but a mare pour scorn on
you. why ar ye outstrip, brave steed? thu will i tell you, and
verili it shall be brought to pass--ye will find no tendanc with nestor
shepherd of host, but straightwai he will slai you with the edg of the
sword if through heedless we win but the wors prize. have after
them at your utmost speed, and i for my part will devis a plan to pass
them in the strait part of the cours, and thi shall fail me not."

thu spake he, and thei fear the voic of the princ ran swiftlier
some littl while; and present did the good warrior antilocho espi a
strait place in a sunk part of the wai. there wa a rift in the earth,
where torrent water gather and brake part of the track awai, and
hollow all the place; there drave menelao, shun the encount of
the wheel. but antilocho turn hi whole-hoov hors out of the
track, and follow him a littl at on side. and the son of atreu took
alarm and shout to antilocho: "antilocho, thou art drive
recklessli--hold in thy hors! the road is straiten, soon thou mayest
pass me in a wider place, lest thou foul my chariot and undo us both."

thu spake he, but antilocho drave even fierceli than befor, ply
hi lash, as though he heard him not. as far as is the rang of a disk
swung from the shoulder when a young man hurleth it, make trial of hi
forc, even so far ran thei on; then the mare of atreu' son gave back,
for he ceas of himself to urg them on, lest the whole-hoov steed
should encount on the track, and overset the well-knit car, and the
driver fall in the dust in their zeal for victori. so upbraid
antilocho spake golden-hair menelao: "antilocho, no mortal man is
more malici than thou. go thy mad wai, sinc fals have we achaian
call thee wise. yet even so thou shalt not bear off the prize
unchalleng to an oath."

thu sai he call aloud to hi hors: "hold ye not back nor stand
still with sorrow at heart. their feet and knee will grow weari befor
your, for thei both lack youth."

thu spake he, and thei fear the voic of the princ sped faster on,
and were quickli close upon the other.

now the argiv sit in concours were gaze at the hors, and thei
came fly amid their dust over the plain. and the first awar of them
wa idomeneu, chief of the cretan, for he wa sit outsid the
concours in the highest place of view, and when he heard the voic of
on that shout, though afar off, he knew it; and he wa awar of a
hors show plainli in the front, a chestnut all the rest of him, but
in the forehead mark with a white star round like the moon. and he
stood upright and spoke among the argiv: "friend, chief, and
counsellor of the argiv, is it i alon who see the hors, or do ye
also? a new pair seem to me now to be in front, and a new chariot
appeareth; the mare which led in the outward cours must have been
thrown out there in the plain. for i saw them turn first the hither
post, but now can see them nowher, though my ey ar gaze everywher
along the trojan plain. did the rein escap the chariot so that he
could not drive aright round the post and fail in the turn? there,
methink, must he have been cast forth, and have broken hi chariot, and
the mare must have left the cours, in the wild of their heart. but
stand up ye too and look, for myself i discern not certainli, but the
first man seemeth to me on of aitolian race, and he ruleth among
argiv, the son of hors-tame tydeu, stalwart diomed."

then fleet aia oileu' son rebuk him in unseemli sort: "idomeneu,
why art thou a braggart of old? as yet far off the high-step mare
ar cours over the wide plain. neither art thou so far the youngest
among the argiv, nor do thy ey look so far the keenliest from thy
head, yet continu braggest thou. it beseemeth thee not to be a
braggart, for there ar here better men. and the mare lead ar thei
that led befor, eumelo' mare, and he standeth and holdeth the rein
within the car."

then wrathfulli in answer spake the chief of cretan: "aia, master of
rail, ill-counsel, in all els art thou behind other argiv, for
thy mind is unfriendli. come then let us wager a tripod or caldron, and
make agamemnon atreu' son our umpir, which mare ar lead, that
thou mayest pai and learn."

thu said he, and straightwai fleet aia oileu' son aros angrili to
answer with harsh word: and strife between the twain would have gone
further, had not achil himself stood up and spake a word: "no longer
answer each other with harsh word, aia and idomeneu, ill word, for
it beseemeth not. sure ye ar displeas with ani other who should do
thu. sit ye in the concours and keep your ey upon the hors; soon
thei in zeal for victori will come hither, and then shall ye know each
of you the argiv' hors, which follow, and which lead."

he said, and the son of tydeu came drive up, and with hi lash smote
now and again from the shoulder, and hi hors were step high as
thei sped swiftli on their wai. and sprinkl of dust smote ever the
chariot, and hi chariot overlaid with gold and tin ran behind hi
fleet-foot steed, and small trace wa there of the wheel-tire behind
in the fine dust, as thei flew speed on. then he drew up in the mid
concours, and much sweat pour from the hors' head and chest to
the ground. and diomed leapt to earth from the shine car, and leant
hi lash against the yoke. then stalwart sthenelo tarri not, but
promptli took the prize, and gave to hi proud comrad the woman to
lead and the ear tripod to bear awai, and he loos the hors from
the yoke.

and next after him drave neleian antilocho hi hors, by craft, not
swift, have pass by menelao; yet even now menelao held hi
swift steed hard anigh. as far as a hors is from the wheel, which
draweth hi master, strain with the car over the plain--hi hindmost
tail-hair touch the tire, for the wheel runneth hard anigh nor is much
space between, as he speedeth far over the plain--by so much wa
menelao behind high-born antilocho, howbeit at first he wa a whole
disk-cast behind, but quickli he wa catch antilocho up, for the
high mettl of agamemnon's mare, sleek-coat aith, wa rise in her.
and if yet further both had had to run he would have pass hi rival
nor left it even a dead heat. but merion, stout squir of idomeneu,
came in a spear-throw behind famou menelao, for tardiest of all were
hi sleek-coat hors, and slowest he himself to drive a chariot in
the race. last of them all came admeto' son, drag hi goodli car
drive hi steed in front. him when fleet-foot nobl achil beheld
he piti him, and he stood up and spake wing word among the argiv:
"last driveth hi whole-hoov hors the best man of them all. but come
let us give him a prize, as is seemli, prize for the second place, but
the first let the son of tydeu take."

thu spake he, and all applaud that he bade. and he would have given
him the mare, for the achaian applaud, had not antilocho, son of
great-heart nestor; risen up and answer peleian achil on behalf
of hi right: "o achil, i shall be sore anger with thee if thou
accomplish thi word, for thou art mind to take awai my prize, becaus
thou thinkest of how hi chariot and fleet steed miscarri, and
himself withal, good man though he be. nai, it behov him to prai to
the immort, then would he not have come in last of all in the race.
but if thou pitiest him and he be dear to thy heart, there is much gold
in thy hut, bronz is there and sheep, hand-maid ar there and
whole-hoov hors. thereof take thou and give unto him afterward even
a richer prize, or even now at onc, that the achaian mai applaud thee.
but the mare i will not yield; for her let what man will essai the
battl at my hand."

thu spake he, and fleet-foot nobl achil smile, pleas with
antilocho, for he wa hi dear comrad; and spake in answer to him
wing word: "antilocho, if thou wouldst have me give eumelo some
other thing besid from out my hous, that also will i do. i will give
unto him a breast-plate that i took from asteropaio, of bronz, whereon
a cast of bright tin is overlaid, and of great worth will it be to
him." he said, and bade hi dear comrad automedon bring it from the
hut, and he went and brought it. [then he place it in eumelo' hand,
and he receiv it gladli.]

but menelao also aros among them, sore at heart, anger exceedingli
against antilocho; and the herald set the staff in hi hand, and call
for silenc among the argiv; then spake among them that godlik man:
"antilocho, who onc wert wise, what thing is thi thou hast done? thou
hast shame my skill and made my hors fail, thrust thine own in
front that ar far wors. come now, ye chief and counsellor of the
argiv, give judgment between us both, and favour neither: lest some
on of the mail-clad achalan sai at ani time: 'by constrain
antilocho through fals word hath menelao gone off with the mare, for
hi hors were far wors, howbeit he hath advantag in rank and power.'
nai, i myself will bring the issu about, and i deem that none other of
the danaan shall reproach me, for the trial shall be just. antilocho,
fosterl of zeu, come thou hither and as it is ordain stand up
befor thy hors and chariot and take in thy hand the pliant lash
wherewith thou dravest erst, and touch thy hors swear by the
enfold and shaker of the earth that not wilfulli didst thou hinder
my chariot by guil."

then answer him wise antilocho: "bear with me now, for far younger am
i than thou, king menelao, and thou art befor me and my better. thou
knowest how a young man's transgress come about, for hi mind is
hastier and hi counsel shallow. so let thy heart suffer me, and i will
of myself give to thee the mare i have taken. yea, if thou shouldst ask
some other greater thing from my hous, i were fain to give it thee
straightwai, rather than fall for ever from my place in thy heart, o
fosterl of zeu, and becom a sinner against the god."

thu spake great-heart nestor's son, and brought the mare and put her
in the hand of menelao. and hi heart wa gladden as when the dew
cometh upon the ear of ripen harvest-corn, what time the field ar
bristl. so gladden wa thy soul, menelao, within thy heart. and he
spake unto antilocho and utter wing word: "antilocho, now will i
of myself put awai mine anger against thee, sinc no wise formerli wert
thou flighti or light-mind, howbeit now thy reason wa overcom of
youth. anoth time be loth to outwit better men. not easili
should anoth of the achaian have persuad me, but thou hast suffer
and toil greatli, and thy brave father and brother, for my sake:
therefor will i hearken to thy prayer, and will even give unto thee the
mare, though she is mine, that these also mai know that my heart wa
never overween or implac."

he said, and gave the mare to noemon antilocho' comrad to lead awai,
and then took the shine caldron. and merion took up the two talent
of gold in the fourth place, as he had come in. so the fifth prize wa
left unclaim, a two-handl cup; to nester gave achil thi,
bear it to him through the concours of argiv, and stood by him and
said: "lo now for thee too, old man, be thi a treasur, a memori of
patroklo' buri; for no more shalt thou behold him among the argiv.
now give i thee thi prize unwon, for not in box shalt thou strive,
neither wrestl, nor enter on the javelin match, nor race with thy feet;
for grim old ag alreadi weigheth on thee."

thu sai he place it in hi hand, and nestor receiv it gladli, and
spake unto him wing word: "ay, truli all thi, my son, thou hast
meetli said; for no longer ar my limb, friend, firm, nor my feet, nor
do my arm at all swing lightli from my shoulder either side. would
that my youth were such and my forc so firm as when the epeian were
buri lord amarynk at bupras, and hi son held the king's
funer game. then wa no man found like me, neither of the epeian nor
of the pylian themselv or the great-heart aitolian. in box i
overcam klytomed, son of enop, and in wrestl ankaio of pleuron,
who stood up against me, and in the foot-race i outran iphiklo, a right
good man, and with the spear outthrew phyleu and polydoro; onli in the
chariot-race the two son of aktor beat me [by crowd their hors in
front of me, jealou for victori, becaus the chief prize were left at
home.] now thei were twin--on ever held the rein, the rein he ever
held, the other call on the hors with the lash. thu wa i onc, but
now let younger men join in such feat; i must bend to grievou ag, but
then wa i of mark among hero. but come hold funer for thy comrad
too with with game. thi gift do i accept with glad, and my heart
rejoiceth that thou rememberest ever my friendship to thee--(nor forget
i thee)--and the honour wherewith it is meet that i be honour among
the achaian. and mai the god for thi grant thee due grace."

thu spake he, and peleid wa gone down the full concours of
achaian, when he had hearken to all the thank of neleu' son. then
he ordain prize of the violent box match; a sturdi mule he led
forth and tether amid the assembl, a six-year mule unbroken, hardest
of all to break; and for the loser set a two-handl cup. then he stood
up and spake a word among the argiv: "son of atreu and ye other
well-greav achaian, for these reward we summon two men of the best
to lift up their hand to box amain. he to whom apollo shall grant
endur to the end, and all the achaian acknowledg it, let him take
the sturdi mule and return with her to hi hut; and the loser shall take
with him the two-handl-cup."

thu spake he, and forthwith aros a man great and valiant and skill
in box, epeio son of panopeu, and laid hi hand on the sturdi mule
and said aloud: "let on come nigh to bear off the two-handl cup; the
mule i sai none other of the achaian shall take for victori with hi
fist, for i claim to be the best man here. sufficeth it not that i fall
short of you in battl? not possibl is it that in all art a man be
skill. thu proclaim i, and it shall be accomplish: i will utterli
bruis mine adversari's flesh and break hi bone, so let hi friend
abid togeth here to bear him forth when vanquish by my hand."

thu spake he, and thei all kept deep silenc. and alon aros against
him euryalo, a godlik man, son of king mekisteu the son of talao,
mekisteu, who came on a time to thebe when oedipu had fallen, to hi
burial, and there he overcam all the son of kadmo. thu tydeid
famou with the spear made readi euryalo for the fight, cheer him
with speech, and greatli desir for him victori. and first he cast
about him a girdl, and next gave him well-cut thong of the hide of an
ox of the field. and the two boxer be girt went into the midst of
the ring, and both lift up their stalwart hand fell to, and their
hand join battl grievous. then wa there terribl grind of
teeth, and sweat flow from all their limb. and nobl epeio came on,
and as the other spi for an open, smote him on the cheek, nor could
he much more stand, for hi limb fail straightwai under him. and as
when beneath the north wind's rippl a fish leapeth on a tangl-cover
beach, and then the black wave hideth it, so leapt up euryalo at that
blow. but great-heart epeio took him in hi hand and set him
upright, and hi dear comrad stood around him, and led him through the
ring with trail feet, spit out clot blood, droop hi head
awri, and thei set him down in hi swoon among them and themselv went
forth and fetch the two-handl cup.

then peleu' son ordain straightwai the prize for a third contest,
offer them to the danaan, for the grievou wrestl match: for the
winner a great tripod for stand on the fire, prize by the achaian
among them at twelv oxen' worth; and for the loser he brought a woman
into the midst, skill in manifold work, and thei prize her at four
oxen. and he stood up and spake a word among the argiv: "rise, ye who
will essai thi match."

thu said he, and there aros great aia son of telamon, and odysseu of
mani wile stood up, the crafti-mind. and the twain be girt went
into the midst of the ring, and clasp each the other in hi arm with
stalwart hand, like gabl rafter of a lofti hous which some fame
craftsman joineth, that he mai baffl the wind's forc. and their back
creak, grip firmli under the vigor hand, and sweat ran down in
stream, and frequent weal along their rib and shoulder sprang up,
red with blood, while ever thei strove amain for victori, to win the
wrought tripod. neither could odysseu trip aia and bear him to the
ground, nor aia him, for odysseu' strength withheld him. but when thei
began to irk the well-greav achaian, then said to odysseu great
aia, telamon's son: "heaven-sprung son of laert, odysseu of mani
wile, or lift thou me, or i will thee, and the issu shall be with
zeu."

have thu said he lift him, but odysseu wa not unmind of hi
craft. he smote deftli from behind the hollow of aia' knee, and loos
hi limb, and threw him down backward, and odysseu fell upon hi
chest, and the folk gaze and marvel. then in hi turn much-endur
nobl odysseu tri to lift, and move him a littl from the ground,
but lift him not, so he crook hi knee within the other's, and both
fell on the ground nigh to each other, and were soil with dust, and
now start up again a third time would thei have wrestl, had not
achil himself arisen and held them back: "no longer press each the
other, nor wear you out with pain. victori is with both; take equal
prize and depart, that other achaian mai contend."

thu spake he, and thei were fain to hear and to obei, and wipe the
dust from them and put their doublet on.

then straightwai the son of peleu set forth other prize for fleet
of foot; a mix-bowl of silver, chase; six measur it held, and in
beauti it wa far the best in all the earth, for artific of sidon
wrought it cunningli, and men of the phoenician brought it over the
misti sea, and land it in harbour, and gave it a gift to thoa; and
euneo son of jason gave it to the hero patroklo a ransom for lykaon
priam's son. now thi cup did achil set forth as a prize in honour of
hi friend, for whoso should be fleetest in speed of foot. for the
second he set an ox great and veri fat, and for the last prize half a
talent of gold. and he stood up and spake a word among the argiv:
"rise, ye who will essai thi match."

thu spake he, and straightwai aros fleet aia oileu' son, and
odysseu of mani wile, and after them nestor's son antilocho, for he
wa best of all the youth in the foot-race. then thei stood side by
side, and achil show to them the goal. right eager wa the run
from the start, but oileu' son forthwith shot to the front, and close
behind him came nobl odysseu, as close as is a weav-rod to a
fair-girdl woman's breast when she pulleth it deftli with her hand,
draw the spool along the warp, and holdeth the rod nigh her breast--
so close ran odysseu behind aia and trod in hi footstep or ever the
dust had settl there, and on hi head fell the breath of nobl
odysseu as he ran ever lightli on, and all the achaian applaud hi
struggl for the victori and call on him as he labour hard. but when
thei were run the last part of the cours, forthwith odysseu prai
in hi soul to bright-ei athen: "hearken, goddess, come thou a good
helper of my feet."

thu prai he, and palla athen hearken to him, and made hi limb
feel light, both feet and hand. but when thei, were now nigh dart on
the prize, then aia slip as he ran, for athen mar hi race,
where filth wa strewn from the slaughter of loud-bellow oxen that
fleet achil slew in honour of patroklo: and aia' mouth and nostril
were fill with that filth of oxen. so much-endur nobl odysseu, as
he came in first, took up the mix-bowl, and famou aia took the ox.
and he stood hold in hi hand the horn of the ox of the field,
sputter awai the filth, and spake among the argiv: "out on it, it
wa the goddess who mar my run, she who from of old like a mother
standeth by odysseu' side and helpeth him."

so spake he, but thei all laugh pleasantli to behold him. then
antilocho smile bore off the last prize, and spake hi word among the
argiv: "friend, ye will all bear me wit when i sai that even
herein also the immort favour elder men. for aia is a littl older
than i, but odysseu of an earlier gener and earlier race of men. a
green old ag is hi, thei sai, and hard were it for ani achaian to
rival him in speed, save onli achil."

thu spake he, and gave honour to the fleet son of peleu. and achil
answer him and said: "antilocho, not unheed shall thy prais be
given; a half-talent of gold i will give thee over and abov." he said,
and set it in hi hand, and antilocho receiv it gladli.

then peleu' son brought and set in the ring a far-shadow spear and a
chaldron that knew not the fire, an ox's worth, emboss with flower;
and men that were caster of the javelin aros up. there rose atreu'
son wide-rule agamemnon, and merion, idomeneu' brave squir. and
swift-foot nobl achil spake among them: "son of atreu, for that
we know how far thou excellest all, and how far the first thou art in
the might of thy throw, take thou thi prize with thee to the hollow
ship, and to the hero merion let us give the spear, if thou art
will in thy heart: thu i at least advis."

thu spake he, nor disregard him agamemnon king of men. so to merion
he gave the spear of bronz, but to the herald talthybio the hero gave
the goodliest prize.



book xxiv.

    how the bodi of hector wa ransom, and of hi funer.

then the assembl wa broken up, and the tribe were scatter to betak
them each to their own swift ship. the rest bethought them of supper
and sweet sleep to have joi thereof; but achil wept, rememb hi
dear comrad, nor did sleep that conquereth all take hold on him, but he
kept turn him to thi side and to that, yearn for patroklo'
manhood and excel valour, and all the toil he achiev with him and
the woe he bare, cleav the battl of men and the grievou wave. as
he thought thereon be shed big tear, now ly on hi side, now on hi
back, now on hi face; and then anon he would aris upon hi feet and
roam wildli besid the beach of the salt sea. nor would he be unawar of
the dawn when she aros over the sea and shore. but when he had yoke
the swift steed to hi car he would bind hector behind hi chariot to
drag him withal; and have thrice drawn him round the barrow of the
dead son of menoitio he rest again in hi hut, and left hector ly
stretch on hi face in the dust. but apollo kept awai all defac
from hi flesh, for he had piti on him even in death, and cover him
all with hi golden aegi, that achil might not tear him when he
drag him.

thu achil in hi anger entreat nobl hector shamefulli; but the
bless god when thei beheld him piti him, and urg the
clear-sight slayer of argu to steal the corps awai. so to all the
other seem it good, yet not to hera or poseidon or the bright-ei
maiden, but thei continu as when at the begin sacr ilio becam
hate to them, and priam and hi peopl, by reason of the sin of
alexandro in that he contemn those goddess when thei came to hi
stead, and prefer her who brought him deadli lust. but when
the twelfth morn from that dai aros, then spake among the immort
phoebu apollo: "hard of heart ar ye, o god, and cruel hath hector
never burnt for you thigh-bone of unblemish bull and goat? now have
ye not taken heart to rescu even hi corps for hi wife to look upon
and hi mother and hi child and hi father priam and hi peopl, who
speedili would burn him in the fire and make hi funer. but fell
achil, o god, ye ar fain to abet, whose mind is nowis just nor the
purpos in hi breast to be turn awai, but he is cruelli mind as a
lion that in great strength and at the bid of hi proud heart goeth
forth against men's flock to make hi meal; even thu achil hath
cast out piti, neither hath he shame, that doth both harm and profit men
greatli. it must be that mani a man lose even some dearer on than wa
thi, a brother of the same womb born or perchanc a son; yet bringeth
he hi wail and lament to an end, for an endur soul have the
fate given unto men. but achil after bereav nobl hector of hi
life bindeth him behind hi hors and draggeth him around the tomb of
hi dear comrad: not, verili, is that more honour or better for
him. let him take heed lest we wax wroth with him, good man though he
be, for in hi furi he is entreat shamefulli the senseless clai."

then in anger spake unto him white-arm hera: "even thu mightest thou
speak, o lord of the silver bow, if ye ar to give equal honour to
achil and to hector. hector is but a mortal and wa suckl at a
woman's breast, but achil is child of a goddess whom i myself bred up
and rear and gave to a man to be hi wife, even to peleu who wa
dearest of all men to the immort' heart. and all ye god came to her
bridal, and thou among them wert feast with thy lyre, o lover of ill
compani, faithless ever."

then to her in answer spake zeu who gathereth the cloud: "hera, be not
wroth utterli with the god: for these men's honour is not to be the
same, yet hector also wa dearest to the god of all mortal that ar in
ilio. so wa he to me at least, for nowis fail he in the gift i
love. never did my altar lack seemli feast, drink-offer and the
steam of sacrific, even the honour that falleth to our due. but verili
we will sai no more of steal awai brave hector, for it cannot be
hidden from achil, for hi mother abideth ever nigh to him night and
dai. but i were fain that some on of the god would call theti to come
near to me, that i mai speak unto her a wise word, so that achil mai
take gift from priam and give hector back." thu spake he, and
airi-foot iri sped forth upon the errand and between samothrac and
rocki imbro leapt into the black sea, and the water close abov her
with a nois. and she sped to the bottom like a weight of lead that
mount on horn of a field-ox goeth down bear death to raven
fish. and she found theti in a hollow cave; about her sat gather
other goddess of the sea and she in their midst wa wail for the
fate of her nobl son who must perish in deep-soil troi, far from hi
nativ land. and stand near, fleet-foot iri spake to her: "rise,
theti; zeu of immort counsel calleth thee."

and to her made answer theti the silver-foot goddess: "wherefor
biddeth me that mighti god? i shrink from mingl among the immort,
for i have countless woe at heart. yet go i, nor shall hi word be in
vain, whatsoev he saith."

thu have said the nobl goddess took to her a dark-hu robe, no
blacker raiment wa there found than that. then she went forth, and
wind-foot swift iri led the wai befor her, and around them the surg
of the sea wa sunder. and when thei had come forth upon the shore
thei sped up to heaven, and found the far-see son of krono, and
round him sat gather all the other bless god that ar for ever.
then she sat down besid father zeu, and athen gave her place. and
hera set a fair golden cup in her hand and cheer her with word, and
theti drank, and gave back the cup. then began speech to them the
father of god and men: "thou art come to olympu, divin theti, in thy
sorrow, with violent grief at thy heart; i know it of myself.
nevertheless will i tell thee wherefor i call thee hither. nine dai
hath disput arisen among the immort concern the corps of hector
and achil waster of citi. fain ar thei to send clear-sight
herm to steal the bodi awai, but now hear what glori i accord herein
to achil, that i mai keep through time to come thy honour and good
will. go with all speed to the host and bear to thy son my bid. sai
to him that the god ar displeas at him, and that i abov all
immort am wroth, becaus with furiou heart be holdeth hector at the
beak ship and hath not given him back, if hapli he mai fear me and
give hector back. but i will send iri to great-heart priam to bid him
go to the ship of the achaian to ransom hi dear son, and carri gift
to achil that mai gladden hi heart."

thu spake he, and theti the silver-foot goddess wa not disobedi
to hi word, and sped dart upon her wai down from the peak of
olympu. and she came to her son's hut; there found she him make
grievou moan, and hi dear comrad round were swiftli make readi and
furnish their earli meal, and a sheep great and fleeci wa be
sacrif in the hut. then hi ladi-mother sate her down close besid
him, and stroke him with her hand and spake to him by hi name: "my
child, how long with lament and woe wilt thou devour thine heart,
take thought of neither food nor rest? good were even a woman's
embrac, for not long shalt thou be left aliv to me; alreadi death and
forc fate ar stand nigh thee. but hearken forthwith unto me, for
i am the messeng of zeu to thee. he saith that the god ar
displeas at thee, and that himself abov all immort is wroth,
becaus with furiou heart thou holdest hector at the beak ship and
hast not given him back. but come restor him, and take ransom for the
dead."

then to her in answer spake fleet-foot achil: "so be it: whoso
bringeth ransom let him take back the dead, if verili with heart's
intent the olympian biddeth it himself."

so thei in the assembl of the ship, mother and son, spake to each
other mani wing word. but the son of krono thu bade iri go to holi
ilio: "go forth, fleet iri, leav the abod of olympu and bear my
messag within ilio to great-heart priam that he go to the ship of
the achaian and ransom hi dear son and carri gift to achil that
mai gladden hi heart; let him go alon, and no other man of the trojan
go with him. onli let some elder herald attend on him to guid the mule
and smooth-wheel waggon and carri back to the citi the dead man whom
nobl achil slew. let not death be in hi thought nor ani fear; such
guid will we give unto him, even the slyer of argu who shall lead him
until hi lead bring him to achil. and when he shall have led him
within the hut, neither shall achil himself slai him nor suffer ani
other herein, for not senseless is he or unforese or wick, but
with all courtesi he will spare a suppliant man."

thu spake he, and airi-foot iri sped forth upon the errand. and she
came to the hous of priam, and found therein cry and moan. hi
children sit around their father within the court were bedew
their raiment with their tear, and the old man in their midst wa close
wrap all over in hi cloak; and on hi head and neck wa much mire
that he had gather in hi hand as he grovel upon the earth. and
hi daughter and hi son' wive were wail throughout the hous,
bethink them of all those valiant men who had lost their live at the
hand of the argiv and were ly low. and the messeng of zeu stood
besid priam and spake softli unto him, and trembl came upon hi
limb: "be of good cheer in thy heart, o priam son of dardano, and be
not dismai for anyth, for no evil come i hither to forebod to
thee, but with good will. i am the messeng of zeu to thee, who,
though he be afar off, hath great care and piti for thee. the olympian
biddeth thee ransom nobl hector and carri gift to achil that mai
gladden hi heart: go thou alon, let none other of the trojan go with
thee. onli let some elder herald attend on thee to guid the mule and
the smooth-wheel waggon to carri back to the citi the dead man whom
nobl achil slew. let not death be in thy thought, nor ani fear; such
guid shall go with thee, even the slayer of argu, who shall lead thee
until hi lead bring thee to achil. and when he shall have led
thee into the hut, neither shall achil himself slai thee, nor suffer
ani other herein, for not senseless is he or unforese or wick, but
with all courtesi he will spare a suppliant man."

thu have spoken fleet iri depart from him; and he bade hi son
make readi the smooth-wheel mule waggon, and bind the wicker carriag
thereon. and himself he went down to hi fragrant chamber, of cedar
wood, high-roof, that held full mani jewel: and to hekab hi wife he
call and spake: "ladi, from zeu hath an olympian messeng come to
me, that i go to the ship of the achaian and ransom my dear son, and
carri gift to achil that mai gladden hi heart. come tell me how
seemeth it to thy mind, for of myself at least my desir and heart bid
me mightili to go thither to the ship and enter the wide camp of the
achaian."

thu spake he, but hi wife lament aloud and made answer to him: "woe
is me, whither is gone thy mind wherebi aforetim thou wert famou among
stranger men and among them thou rulest? how art thou fain to go alon
to the ship of the achaian, to meet the ey of the man who hath slain
full mani of thy brave son? of iron verili is thy heart. for if he
light on thee and behold thee with hi ey, a savag and ill-trust
man is thi, and he will not piti thee, neither rever thee at all.
nai, now let us sit in the hall and make lament afar off. even thu did
forc fate erst spin for hector with her thread at hi begin when
i bare him, even i, that he should glut fleet-foot dog, far from hi
parent, in the dwell of a violent man whose inmost vital i were
fain to fasten and feed upon; then would hi deed against my son be
paid again to him, for not plai the coward wa he slain of him, but
champion the men and deep-bosom women of troi, neither bethought he
him of shelter or of flight."

the to her in answer spake the old man godlik priam: "stai me not, for
i am fain to go, neither be thyself a bird of ill bode in my hall,
for thou wilt not chang my mind. were it some other and a child of
earth that bade me thi, whether some seer or of the priest that divin
from sacrific, then would we declar it fals and have no part
therein; but now, sinc i have heard the voic of the goddess myself and
look upon her face, i will go forth, and her word shall not be void.
and if it be my fate to die by the ship of the mail-clad achaian, so
would i have it; let achil slai me with all speed, when onc i have
taken in my arm my son, and have satisfi my desir with moan."

he spake, and open fair lid of chest wherefrom he chose twelv veri
goodli women's robe and twelv cloak of singl fold and of coverlet a
like number and of fair sheet, and of doublet thereupon. and he
weigh and brought forth talent of gold ten in all, and two shine
tripod and four caldron, and a goblet exceed fair that men of
thrace had given him when he went thither on an embassi, a chattel of
great price, yet not that even did the old man grudg from hi hall,
for he wa exceed fain at heart to ransom hi dear son. then he drave
out all the trojan from the colonnad, chide them with word of
rebuk: "begon, ye that dishonour and do me shame! have ye no mourn
of your own at home that ye come to vex me here? think ye it a small
thing that zeu krono' son hath given me thi sorrow, to lose him that
wa the best man of my son? nai, but ye too shall feel it, for easier
far shall ye be to the achaian to slai now he is dead. but for me, er
i behold with mine ey the citi sack and wast, let me go down into
the hous of hade."

he said, and with hi staff chase forth the men, and thei went forth
befor the old man in hi hast. then he call unto hi son, chide
heleno and pari and nobl agathon and pammon and antiphono, and
polit of the loud war-cry, and deiphobo and hippothoo and proud
dio; nine were thei whom the old man call and bade unto him: "hast
ye, ill son, my shame; would that ye all in hector's stead had been
slain at the swift ship! woe is me all unblest, sinc i begat son the
best men in wide troi-land, but none of them is left for me to claim,
neither godlik mestor, nor troilo with hi chariot of war, nor hector
who wa a god among men, neither seem he as the son of a mortal man
but of a god:--all these hath ar slain, and here ar my shame all
left to me, fals-tongu, light-heel, the hero of danc, plunder
of your own peopl's sheep and kid. will ye not make me readi a wain
with all speed, and lai all these thereon, that we get us forward on our
wai?"

thu spake he, and thei fear their father's voic brought forth the
smooth-run mule chariot, fair and new, and bound the bodi thereof on
the frame; and from it peg thei took down the mule yoke, a boxwood yoke
with knob well fit with guid-ring; and thei brought forth the
yoke-band of nine cubit with the yoke. the yoke thei set firmli on the
polish pole on the rest at the end thereof, and slip the ring over
the upright pin, which with three turn of the band thei lash to the
knob, and then belai it close round the pole and turn the tongu
thereund. then thei brought from the chamber and heap on the
polish wain the countless ransom of hector's head, and yoke
strong-hoov har mule, which on a time the mysian gave to priam,
a splendid gift. but to priam's car thei yoke the hors that the old
man kept for hi us and rear at the polish crib.

thu in the high palac were priam and the herald let yoke their
car, with wise thought at their heart, when nigh came hekab sore at
heart, with honei-sweet wine in her right hand in a golden cup that thei
might make libat er thei went. and she stood befor the hors and
spake a word to priam by name: "lo now make libat to father zeu and
prai that thou mayest come back home from among the enemi, sinc thy
heart speedeth thee forth to the ship, though fain were i thou wentest
not. and next prai to kronion of the storm-cloud, the god of ida, that
beholdeth all troi-land beneath, and ask of him a bird of omen, even the
swift messeng that is dearest of all bird to him and of mightiest
strength, to appear upon thy right, that see the sign with thine own
ey thou mayest go in trust thereto unto the ship of the fleet-hors
danaan. but if far-see zeu shall not grant unto thee hi messeng,
i at least shall not bid thee on to go among the ship of the achaian
how fain soever thou mayest be."

then answer and spake unto her godlik priam: "ladi, i will not
disregard thi hest of thine, for good it is to lift up hand to zeu,
if hapli he will have piti."

thu spake the old man, and bade a hous-dame that serv him pour pure
water on hi hand; and she came near to serv him with water in a ewer
to wash withal. and when he had wash hi hand he took a goblet from
hi wife: then he stood in the midst of the court and prai and pour
forth wine as he look up to heaven, and spake a word aloud: "father
zeu that bearest swai from ida, most gloriou and most great, grant
that i find welcom and piti under achil' roof, and send a bird of
omen, even the swift messeng that is dearest of all bird to thee and
of mightiest strength, to appear upon the right, that see thi sign
with mine ey i mai go trust therein unto the ship of the
fleet-hors danaan."

thu spake he prai, and zeu of wise counsel hearken unto him, and
straightwai sent forth an eagl, surest omen of wing bird, the duski
hunter call of men the black eagl. wide as the door, well lock,
fit close, of some rich man's high-roof hall, so wide were hi
wing either wai; and he appear to them speed on the right hand
abov the citi. and when thei saw the eagl thei rejoic and all their
heart were glad within their breast.

then the old man made hast to go up into hi car, and drave forth from
the doorwai and the echo portico. in front the mule drew the
four-wheel wain, and wise idaio drave them; behind came the hors
which the old man urg with the lash at speed along the citi: and hi
friend all follow lament loud as though he were fare to hi
death. and when thei were come down from the citi and were now on the
plain, then went back again to ilio hi son and marriag kin. but the
two come forth upon the plain were not unbeheld of far-see zeu.
but he look upon the old man and had compass on him, and
straightwai spake unto herm hi dear son: "herm, sinc unto thee
especi is it dear to companion men, and thou hearest whomsoev thou
wilt, go forth and so guid priam to the hollow ship of the achaian
that no man behold or be awar of him, among all the danaan' host,
until he come to the son of peleu."

thu spake he, and the messeng, the slayer of argu, wa not
disobedi unto hi word. straightwai beneath hi feet he bound on hi
fair sandal, golden, divin, that bare him over wet sea and over the
boundless land with the breath of the wind. and he took up hi wand
wherewith he entranceth the ey of such men as he will, and other he
likewis waketh out of sleep: thi did the strong slayer of argu take
in hi hand, and flew. and quickli came he to troi-land and the
hellespont, and went on hi wai in semblanc as a young man that is
a princ, with the new down on hi chin, as when the youth of men is
the comeliest.

now the other, when thei had driven beyond the great barrow of ilio,
halt the mule and hors at the river to drink; for dark wa come
down over the earth. then the herald beheld herm from hard by, and
mark him, and spake and said to priam: "consid, son of dardano;
thi is matter of prudent thought. i see a man, methink we shall full
soon be rent in piec. come, let us flee in our chariot, or els at
least touch hi knee and entreat him that he have merci on us."

thu spake he, and the old man wa confound, and he wa dismai
exceedingli, and the hair on hi pliant limb stood up, and he stood
still amaz. but the helper came nigh of himself and took the old man's
hand, and spake and question him: "whither, father, dost thou thu
guid these hors and mule through the divin night, when other
mortal ar asleep? hadst thou no fear of the fierc-breath achaian,
thy bitter foe that ar hard anigh thee? if on of them should espi
thee carri such treasur through the swift black night, what then
would be thy thought? neither art thou young thyself, and thy companion
here is old, that ye should make defenc against a man that should
assail thee first. but i will no wise harm thee, yea i will keep ani
other from thy hurt: for the similitud of my dear father i see in
thee."

and to him in answer spake the old man, godlik priam: "even so, kind
son, ar all these thing as thou sayest. nevertheless hath some god
stretch forth hi hand even over me in that he hath sent a wayfar
such as thou to meet me, a bearer of good luck, by the nobl of thy
form and semblanc; and thou art wise of heart and of bless parent
art thou sprung."

and to him again spake the messeng, the slayer of argu: "all thi,
old sire, hast thou verili spoken aright. but come sai thi and tell me
truli whether thou art take forth a great and goodli treasur unto
alien men, where it mai abid for thee in safeti, or whether by thi ye
ar all forsak holi ilio in fear; so far the best man among you hath
perish, even thy son; for of battl with the achaian abat he never
a jot."

and to him in answer spake the old man, godlik priam, "who art thou,
nobl sir, and of whom art born? for meetli hast thou spoken of the fate
of my hapless son."

and to him again spake the messeng, the slayer of argu: "thou art
prove me, old sire, in ask me of nobl hector. him have i full oft
seen with mine ey in gloriou battl, and when at the ship he wa
slai the argiv he drave thither, pierc them with the keen
bronz, and we stood still and marvel thereat, for achil suffer
us not to fight, be wroth against atreu' son. hi squir am i, and
came in the same well-wrought ship. from the myrmidon i come, and my
father is polyktor. wealthi is he, and an old man even as thou, and six
other son hath he, and i am hi seventh. with the other i cast lot,
and it fell to me to fare hither with the host. and now am i come from
the ship to the plain, for at dai-break the glanc-ei achaian will
set the battl in arrai around the town. for it chafeth them to be
sit here, nor can the achaian lord hold in their furi for the
frai."

and the old man, godlik priam, answer him, sai: "if verili thou
art a squir of achil peleu' son, come tell me all the truth,
whether still my son is by the ship, or whether er now achil hath
riven him limb from limb and cast him to the dog."

then to him again spake the messeng the slayer of argu: "old sire,
not yet have dog or bird devour him, but there lieth he still by
achil' ship, even as he fell, among the hut, and the twelfth morn
now hath risen upon him, nor doth hi flesh corrupt at all, neither
worm consum it, such as devour men slain in war. truli achil
draggeth him recklessli around the barrow of hi dear comrad so oft as
divin dai dawneth, yet marreth he him not; thou wouldst marvel if thou
couldst go see thyself how dewi fresh he lieth, and is wash clean of
blood, nor anywher defil; and all hi wound wherewith he wa
stricken ar close; howbeit mani of thy son, though he be but a dead
corps, for thei held him dear at heart."

thu spake he, and the old man rejoic, and answer him, sai: "my
son, it is verili a good thing to give due offer withal to the
immort, for never did my child--if that child inde i had--forget
in our hall the god who inhabit olympu. therefor have thei
rememb thi for him, albeit hi portion is death. but come now take
from me thi goodli goblet, and guard me myself and guid me, under
heaven, that i mai come unto the hut of peleu' son."

then spake unto him again the messeng the slayer of argu: "thou art
prove me, old sire, who am younger than thou, but thou wilt not
prevail upon me, in that thou biddest me take gift from thee without
achil' priviti. i were afraid and shame at heart to defraud him,
lest some evil come to pass on me hereaft. but as thy guid i would go
even unto famou argo, accompani thee courteous in swift ship or
on foot. not from scorn of thy guid would ani assail thee then."

thu spake the helper, and leap on the chariot behind the hors he
swiftli took lash and rein into hi hand, and breath brave spirit
into hors and mule. but when thei were come to the tower and trench
of the ship, there were the sentinel just busi them about their
supper. then the messeng, the slayer of argu, shed sleep upon them
all, and straightwai open the gate and thrust back the bar, and
brought within priam and the splendid gift upon hi wain. and thei came
to the lofti hut of the son of peleu, which the myrmidon made for
their king and hew therefor timber of the pine, and thatch it with
downi thatch-rush that thei mow in the meadow, and around it made
for him their lord a great court with close-set palisad; and the door
wa bar by a singl bolt of pine that three achaian wont to drive
home, and three drew back that mighti bar--three of the rest, but
achil by himself would drive it home. then open the helper herm
the door for the old man, and brought in the splendid gift for peleu'
fleet-foot son, and descend from the chariot to the earth and spake
aloud: "old sire, i that have come to thee am an immort god, even
herm, for my father sent me to companion thee on thy wai. but now
will i depart from thee nor come within achil' sight; it were caus
of wrath that an immort god should thu show favour openli unto
mortal. but thou go in and clasp the knee of peleu' son and entreat
him for hi father's sake and hi mother's of the love hair and for
hi child's sake that thou mayest move hi soul."

thu herm spake, and depart unto high olympu. but priam leapt from
the car to the earth, and left idaio in hi place; he stai to mind
the hors and mule; but the old man made straight for the hous where
achil dear to zeu wa wont to sit. and therein he found the man
himself, and hi comrad sate apart: two onli, the hero automedon and
alkimo, of the stock of ar, were busi in attend; and he wa
late ceas from meat, even from eat and drink: and still the
tabl stood besid him. but thei were unawar of great priam as he came
in, and so stood he anigh and clasp in hi hand the knee of
achil, and kiss hi hand, terribl, man-slai, that slew mani of
priam's son. and as when a grievou curs cometh upon a man who in hi
own countri hath slain anoth and escapeth to a land of stranger, to
the hous of some rich man, and wonder possesseth them that look on
him--so achil wonder when he saw godlik priam, and the rest
wonder likewis, and look upon on anoth. then priam spake and
entreat him, sai: "bethink thee, o achil like to god, of thy
father that is of like year with me, on the grievou pathwai of old
ag. him hapli ar the dweller round about entreat evilli, nor is
there ani to ward from him ruin and bane. nevertheless while he heareth
of thee as yet aliv he rejoiceth in hi heart, and hopeth withal dai
after dai that he shall see hi dear son return from troi-land. but
i, i am utterli unblest, sinc i begat son the best men in wide
troi-land, but declar unto thee that none of them is left. fifti i had,
when the son of the achaian came; nineteen were born to me of on
mother, and concubin bare the rest within my hall. now of the more
part had impetu ar unstrung the knee, and he who wa yet left and
guard citi and men, him slewest thou but now as he fought for hi
countri, even hector. for hi sake come i unto the ship of the achaian
that i mai win him back from thee, and i bring with me untold ransom.
yea, fear thou the god, achil, and have compass on me, even me,
bethink thee of thy father. lo, i am yet more piteou than he, and
have brave what none other man on earth hath brave befor, to stretch
forth my hand toward the face of the slayer of my son."

thu spake he, and stir within achil desir to make lament for hi
father. and he touch the old man's hand and gentli move him back. and
as thei both bethought them of their dead, so priam for man-slai
hector wept sore as he wa fallen befor achil' feet, and achil
wept for hi own father, and now again for patroklo, and their moan
went up throughout the hous. but when nobl achil had satisfi him
with lament, and the desir thereof depart from hi heart and limb,
straightwai he sprang from hi seat and rais the old man by hi hand,
piti hi hoari head and hoari beard, and spake unto him wing word
and said: "ah hapless! mani ill thing verili thou hast endur in thy
heart. how durst thou come alon to the ship of the achaian and to
meet the ey of the man who hath slain full mani of the brave son? of
iron verili is thy heart. but come then set thee on a seat, and we will
let our sorrow lie quiet in our heart for all our pain, for no avail
cometh of chill lament. thi is the lot the god have spun for miser
men, that thei should live in pain; yet themselv ar sorrowless. for
two urn stand upon the floor of zeu fill with hi evil gift, and
on with bless. to whomsoev zeu whose joi is in the lightn
dealeth a mingl lot, that man chanceth now upon ill and now again on
good, but to whom he giveth but of the bad kind him he bringeth to
scorn, and evil famin chaseth him over the goodli earth, and he is a
wander honour of neither god nor men. even thu to peleu gave the
god splendid gift from hi birth, for he excel all men in good
fortun and wealth, and wa king of the myrmidon, and mortal though he
wa the god gave him a goddess to be hi bride. yet even on him god
brought evil, see that there aros to him no offspr of princ
son in hi hall, save that he begat on son to an untim death.
neither mai i tend him as he groweth old, sinc veri far from my countri
i am dwell in troi-land, to vex thee and thy children. and of thee,
old sire, we have heard how of old time thou wert happi, even how of all
that lesbo, seat of makar, boundeth to the north thereof and phrygia
farther up and the vast hellespont--of all these folk, men sai, thou
wert the richest in wealth and in son, but after that the power of
heaven brought thi bane on thee, ever ar battl and man-slai
around thy citi. keep courag, and lament not unabatingli in thy heart.
for noth wilt thou avail by griev for thy son, neither shalt thou
bring him back to life or ever some new evil come upon thee."

then made answer unto him the old man, godlik priam: "bid me not to a
seat, o fosterl of zeu, so long as hector lieth uncar for at the
hut, but straightwai give him back that i mai behold him with mine
ey; and accept thou the great ransom that we bring. so mayest thou
have pleasur thereof, and come unto thy nativ land, sinc thou hast
spare me from the first."

then fleet-foot achil look sternli upon him and said: "no longer
chafe me, old sire; of myself am i mind to give hector back to thee,
for there came to me a messeng from zeu, even my mother who bare me,
daughter of the ancient on of the sea. and i know, o priam, in my mind,
nor am unawar that some god it is that hath guid thee to the swift
ship of the achaian. for no mortal man, even though in prime of youth,
would dare to come among the host, for neither could he escap the
watch, nor easili thrust back the bolt of our door. therefor now stir
my heart no more amid my troubl, lest i leav not even thee in peac,
old sire, within my hut, albeit thou art my suppliant, and lest i
transgress the command of zeu."

thu spake he, and the old man fear, and obei hi word. and the son
of peleu leapt like a lion through the door of the hous, not alon,
for with him went two squir, the hero automedon and alkimo, thei whom
abov all hi comrad achil honour, save onli patroklo that wa
dead. thei then loos from under the yoke the hors and mule, and led
in the old man's crier-herald and set him on a chair, and from the wain
of goodli fello thei took the countless ransom set on hector's head.
but thei left two robe and a well-spun doublet, that achil might
wrap the dead therein when he gave him to be carri home. and he call
forth handmaid and bade them wash and anoint him when thei had born
him apart, so that priam should not look upon hi son, lest he should
not refrain the wrath at hi sorrow heart when he should look upon
hi son, and lest achil' heart be vex thereat and he slai him and
transgress the command of zeu. so when the handmaid had wash the
bodi and anoint it with oil, and had thrown over it a fair robe and a
doublet, then achil himself lift it and laid it on a bier, and hi
comrad with him lift it on to the polish waggon. then he groan
aloud and call on hi dear comrad by hi name: "patroklo, be not
vex with me if thou hear even in the hous of hade that i have given
back nobl hector unto hi dear father, for not unworthi is the ransom
he hath given me, whereof i will deal to thee again thy right share."

thu spake nobl achil, and went back into the hut, and sate him down
on the cunningli-wrought couch whenc he had arisen by the opposit
wall, and spake a word to priam: "thy son, old sire, is given back as
thou wouldest and lieth on a bier, and with the break of dai thou shalt
see him thyself as thou carriest him. but now bethink we us of supper.
for even fair-hair niob bethought her of meat, she whose twelv
children perish in her hall, six daughter and six lusti son. the
son apollo, in hi anger against niob, slew with arrow from hi
silver bow, and the daughter archer artemi, for that niob match
herself against fair-cheek leto, sai that the goddess bare but
twain but herself mani children: so thei though thei were but twain
destroi the other all. nine dai thei lai in their blood, nor wa
there ani to buri them, for kronion turn the folk to stone. yet on
the tenth dai the god of heaven buri them, and she then bethought her
of meat, when she wa weari out with weep tear. and somewher now
among the cliff, on the lone mountain, even on sipylo, where thei
sai ar the couch-place of nymph that danc around acheloo, there
she, albeit a stone, broodeth still over her troubl from the god. but
come let us too, nobl father, take thought of meat, and afterward thou
shalt mourn over thy dear son as thou carriest him to ilio; and mani
tear shall be hi due."

thu spake fleet achil, and sprang up, and slew a pure white sheep,
and hi comrad skin and made it readi in seemli fashion, and
divid it cunningli and pierc it with spit, and roast it carefulli
and drew all off. and automedon took bread and serv it on a tabl in
fair basket, while achil dealt out the flesh. and thei stretch
forth their hand to the good cheer ly readi befor them. but when
thei had put off the desir of meat and drink, then priam son of
dardano marvel at achil to see how great he wa and how goodli,
for he wa like a god to look upon. and achil marvel at priam son
of dardano, behold hi nobl aspect and hearken to hi word. but
when thei had gaze their fill upon on anoth, then first spake the
old man, godlik priam, to achil: "now present give me whereon to
lie, fosterl of zeu, that of sweet sleep also we mai now take our
fill at rest: for never yet have mine ey close beneath their lid
sinc at thy hand my son lost hi life, but i continu mourn and
brood over countless grief, grovel in the courtyard-close amid the
mire. now at last have i tast bread and pour bright wine down my
throat, but till now i had tast naught."

he said, and achil bade hi comrad and handmaid to set a bedstead
beneath the portico, and to cast thereon fair shine rug and spread
coverlet abov and thereon to lai thick mantl to be a cloth over
all. and the maid went forth from the inner hail with torch in their
hand, and quickli spread two bed in hast. then with bitter mean
[in hi refer to agamemnon] said fleet-foot achil unto priam:
"lie thou without, dear sire, lest there come hither on of the
counsellor of the achaian, such as ever take counsel with me by my
side, as custom is. if ani of such should behold thee through the swift
black night, forthwith he might hapli tell it to agamemnon shepherd of
the host, and thu would there be delai in give back the dead. but
come sai thi to me and tell it true, how mani dai' space thou art fain
to make funer for nobl hector, so that for so long i mai myself abid
and mai keep back the host."

and the old man, godlik priam, answer him, sai: "if thou art
verili will that i accomplish nobl hector's funer, by do as
thou sayest, o achil, thou wilt do me grace. for thou knowest how we
ar pent within the citi, and wood from the mountain is far to fetch,
and the trojan ar much in fear. nine dai will we make moan for him in
our hall, and on the tenth we will hold funer and the folk shall
feast, and on the eleventh we will make, a barrow over him, and on the
twelfth we will do battl if need be."

then again spake the fleet nobl achil unto him, sai: "all thi, o
ancient priam, shall be as thou biddest; for i will hold back the battl
even so long a time as thou tellest me."

thu speak he clasp the old man's right hand at the wrist, lest he
should be anywis afraid at heart. so thei in the forepart of the hous
laid them down, priam and the herald, with wise thought at their
heart, but achil slept in a recess of the firm-wrought hut, and
besid him lai fair-cheek brisei.

now all other god and warrior lord of chariot slumber all night,
by soft sleep overcom. but not on the helper herm did sleep take hold
as he sought within hi heart how he should guid forth king priam from
the ship unespi of the trusti sentinel. and he stood abov hi head
and spake a word to him: "old sire, no thought then hast thou of ani
evil, see thou yet sleepest among men that ar thine enemi, for
that achil spare thee. truli now hast thou won back thy dear son,
and at great price. but for thy life will thy son thou hast left behind
be offer threefold ransom, if but agamemnon atreu' son be awar of
thee, and awar be all the achaian."

thu spake he, and the old man fear, and rous the herald. and herm
yoke the hors and mule for them, and himself drave them lightli
through the camp, and none wa awar of them.

but when thei came to the ford of the fair-flow river, [even eddi
xantho, begotten of immort zeu,] then herm depart up to high
olympu, and morn of the saffron robe spread over all the earth. and
thei with wail and moan drave the hors to the citi, and the mule drew
the dead. nor mark them ani man or fair-girdl woman until kassandra,
peer of golden aphrodit, have gone up upon pergamo, wa awar of her
dear father as he stood in the car, and the herald that wa crier to the
town. then beheld she him that lai upon the bier behind the mule, and
thereat she wail and cri aloud throughout all the town: "o men and
women of troi, come ye hither and look upon hector, if ever while he wa
aliv ye rejoic when he came back from battl, sinc great joi wa he
to the citi and all the folk."

thu spake she, nor wa man or woman left within the citi, for upon all
came unendur grief. and near the gate thei met priam bring home
the dead. first bewail him hi dear wife and ladi mother, as thei cast
them on the fair-wheel wain and touch hi head; and around them
stood the throng and wept. so all dai long unto the set of the sun
thei had lament hector in tear without the gate, had not the old man
spoken from the car among the folk: "give me place for the mule to pass
through; hereaft ye shall have your fill of wail, when i have
brought him unto hi home."

thu spake he, and thei part asund and gave place to the wain. and
the other when thei had brought him to the famou hous, laid him on a
fret bed, and set besid him minstrel leader of the dirg, who
wail a mourn lai, while the women made moan with them. and among
the women white-arm andromach led the lament, while in her hand
she held the head of hector slayer of men: "husband, thou art gone young
from life, and leavest me a widow in thy hall. and the child is yet but
a littl on, child of ill-fate parent, thee and me; nor methink
shall he grow up to manhood, for er then shall thi citi be utterli
destroi. for thou art verili perish who didst watch over it, who
guardedst it and keptest safe it nobl wive and infant littl on.
these soon shall be voyag in the hollow ship, yea and i too with
them, and thou, my child, shalt either go with me unto a place where
thou shalt toil at unseemli task, labour befor the face of some
harsh lord, or els some achaian will take thee by the arm and hurl thee
from the battlement, a grievou death, for that he is wroth becaus
hector slew hi brother or father or son, sinc full mani of the
achaian in hector's hand have bitten the firm earth. for no light hand
had thy father in the grievou frai. therefor the folk lament him
throughout the citi, and woe unspeak and mourn hast thou left to
thy parent, hector, but with me chiefliest shall grievou pain abid.
for neither didst thou stretch thy hand to me from a bed in thy death,
neither didst speak to me some memor word that i might have thought
on evermor as my tear fall night and dai."

thu spake she wail, and the women join their moan. and among them
hekab again led the loud lament: "hector, of all my children far
dearest to my heart, verili while thou wert aliv dear wert thou to the
god, and even in thy doom of death have thei had care for thee. for
other son of mine whom he took captiv would fleet achil sell beyond
the unvintag sea unto samo and imbro and smoke lemno, but when
with keen-edg bronz he had bereft thee of thy life he wa fain to
drag thee oft around the tomb of hi comrad, even patroklo whom thou
slewest, yet might he not rais him up therebi. but now all dewi and
fresh thou liest in our hall, like on on whom apollo, lord of the
silver bow, hath descend and slain him with hi gentl dart."

thu spake she wail, and stir unend moan. then thirdli helen
led their sore lament: "hector, of all my brethren of troi far dearest
to my heart! truli my lord is godlik alexandro who brought me to
troi-land--would i had di er then. for thi is now the twentieth year
sinc i went thenc and am gone from my own nativ land, but never yet
heard i evil or despit word from thee; nai, if ani other hapli
upbraid me in the palac-hall, whether brother or sister of thine or
brother's fair-robe wife, or thy mother--but thy father is ever kind to
me as he were my own--then wouldst thou sooth such with word and
refrain them, by the gentl of thy spirit and by thy gentl word.
therefor bewail i thee with pain at heart, and my hapless self with
thee, for no more is ani left in wide troi-land to be my friend and kind
to me, but all men shudder at me."

thu spake she wail, and therewith the great multitud of the peopl
groan. but the old man priam spake a word among the folk: "bring wood,
men of troi, unto the citi, and be not anywis afraid at heart of a
crafti ambush of the achaian; for thi messag achil gave me when he
sent me from the black ship, that thei should do us no hurt until the
twelfth morn aris."

thu spake he, and thei yoke oxen and mule to wain, and quickli then
thei flock befor the citi. so nine dai thei gather great store of
wood. but when the tenth morn rose with light for men, then bare thei
forth brave hector, weep tear, and on a lofti pyre thei laid the
dead man, and thereon cast fire.

but when the daughter of dawn, rosi-finger morn, shone forth, then
gather the folk around gloriou hector's pyre. first quench thei
with bright wine all the burn, so far as the fire's strength went,
and then hi brethren and comrad gather hi white bone lament,
and big tear flow down their cheek. and the bone thei took and laid
in a golden urn, shroud them in soft purpl robe, and straightwai
laid the urn in a hollow grave and pile thereon great close-set stone,
and heap with speed a barrow, while watcher were set everywher
around, lest the well-greav achaian should make onset befor the
time. and when thei had heap the barrow thei went back, and gather
them togeth and feast right well in nobl feast at the palac of
priam, zeu-foster king.

thu held thei funer for hector tamer of hors.




end of the project gutenberg etext of homer's iliad translat by
lang, leaf, and myer.
