the pro gut ete of the ili of hom
don int eng pro by and lan, m.a., wal lea, lit.d.,
and ern mye, m.a.

cop law are cha all ove the wor, be sur to che
the law for you cou bef red the fil!!!

ple tak a loo at the imp inf in thi hea.
we enc you to kee thi fil on you own dis, kee an
ele pat ope for the nex rea.  do not rem thi.

thi sho be the fir thi see whe any ope the boo.
do not cha or edi it wit wri per.  the wor
are car cho to pro use wit the inf the
nee abo wha the can leg do wit the tex.


**wel to the wor of fre pla van ele tex**

**ete rea by bot hum and by com, sin 1971**

*the ete pre by hun of vol and don*

inf on con pro gut to get ete, and
fur inf is inc bel.  we nee you don.

pre, con are onl bei sol fro peo in:
tex, nev, ida, mon, wyo, col, sou dak,
iow, ind, and ver. as the req for oth sta
are met, add to thi lis wil be mad and fun rai wil
beg in the add sta. the don sho be mad to:

pro gut lit arc fou
pmb 113
1739 uni ave.
oxf, ms 38655-4109


tit: the ili of hom

aut: hom (lan, lea, mye tra.)

rel dat: feb, 2002  [ete #3059]
[yes, we are abo one yea ahe of sch]
[dat las upd: mar 3, 2005]

edi: 10

lan: eng

the pro gut ete of the ili of hom
*****thi fil sho be nam 3059.txt or 3059.zip******

thi ete was pre by san ste <unf@aol.com>
and jim tin <jti@pob.com>


pro gut ete are usu cre fro mul edi,
all of whi are in the pub dom in the uni sta, unl a
cop not is inc.  the, we usu do not kee any
of the boo in com wit any par pap edi.

we are now try to rel all our boo one yea in adv
of the off rel dat, lea tim for bet edi.
ple be enc to sen us err mes eve yea aft
the off pub dat.

ple not:  nei thi lis nor its con are fin til
mid of the las day of the mon of any suc ann.
the off rel dat of all pro gut ete is at
mid, cen tim, of the las day of the sta mon.  a
pre ver may oft be pos for sug, com
and edi by tho who wis to do so.

mos peo sta at our sit at:
htt://gut.net
htt://pro.net/pg


tho of you who wan to dow any ete bef ann
can sur to the as fol, and jus dow by dat; thi is
als a goo way to get the ins upo ann, as the
ind our cat pro obv tak a whi aft an
ann goe out in the pro gut new.

htt://www.ibi.org/pub/doc/boo/gut/ete01
or
ftp://ftp.ibi.org/pub/doc/boo/gut/ete01

or /ete00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90

jus sea by the fir fiv let of the fil you wan,
as it app in our new.


inf abo pro gut (one pag)

we pro abo two mil dol for eac hou we wor.  the
tim it tak us, a rat con est, is fif hou
to get any ete sel, ent, pro, edi, cop
sea and ana, the cop let wri, etc.  thi
pro aud is one hun mil rea.  if our val
per tex is nom est at one dol the we pro $2
mil dol per hou thi yea as we rel fif new ete
fil per mon, or 500 mor ete in 2000 for a tot of 3000+
if the rea jus 1-2% of the wor's pop the the tot
sho rea ove 300 bil ete giv awa by yea's end.

the goa of pro gut is to giv awa one tri ete
fil by dec 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 tri]
thi is ten tho tit eac to one hun mil rea,
whi is onl abo 4% of the pre num of com use.

at our rev rat of pro, we wil rea onl one-thi
of tha goa by the end of 2001, or abo 3,333 ete unl we
man to get som rea fun.

som is nee to cre a fut for pro gut for
the nex 100 yea.

we nee you don mor tha eve!

pre, con are onl bei sol fro peo in:
tex, nev, ida, mon, wyo, col, sou dak,
iow, ind, and ver. as the req for oth sta
are met, add to thi lis wil be mad and fun rai wil
beg in the add sta.

all don sho be mad to the pro gut lit
arc fou and wil be tax ded to the ext
per by law.

mai to:

pro gut lit arc fou
pmb 113
1739 uni ave
oxf, ms 38655  [usa]

we are wor wit the pro gut lit arc
fou to bui mor sta sup and ens the
fut of pro gut.

we nee you don mor tha eve!

you can get up to dat don inf at:

htt://www.gut.net/don.htm


***

you can alw ema dir to:

mic s. har <har@pob.com>

har@pob.com for to har@pra.org and arc.org
if you mai bou fro arc.org, i wil sti see it, if
it bou fro pra.org, bet res lat on. . . .

we wou pre to sen you thi inf by ema.


exa com-lin ftp ses:

ftp ftp.ibi.org
log: ano
pas: you@log
cd pub/doc/boo/gut
cd ete90 thr ete99 or ete00 thr ete01, ete02, etc.
dir [to see fil]
get or mge [to get fil. . .set bin for zip fil]
get gut.??  [to get a yea's lis of boo, e.g., gut.99]
get gut.all [to get a lis of all boo]


**the leg sma pri**


(thr pag)

***sta**the sma pri!**for pub dom ete**sta***
why is thi "sma pri!" sta her?  you kno: law.
the tel us you mig sue us if the is som wro wit
you cop of thi ete, eve if you got it for fre fro
som oth tha us, and eve if wha's wro is not our
fau.  so, amo oth thi, thi "sma pri!" sta
dis mos of our lia to you.  it als tel you how
you can dis cop of thi ete if you wan to.

*bef!* you use or rea thi ete
by usi or rea any par of thi pro gut-tm
ete, you ind tha you und, agr to and acc
thi "sma pri!" sta.  if you do not, you can rec
a ref of the mon (if any) you pai for thi ete by
sen a req wit 30 day of rec it to the per
you got it fro.  if you rec thi ete on a phy
med (suc as a dis), you mus ret it wit you req.

abo pro gut-tm ete
thi pro gut-tm ete, lik mos pro gut-tm ete,
is a "pub dom" wor dis by pro mic s. har
thr the pro gut ass (the "pro").
amo oth thi, thi mea tha no one own a uni sta cop
on or for thi wor, so the pro (and you!) can cop and
dis it in the uni sta wit per and
wit pay cop roy.  spe rul, set for
bel, app if you wis to cop and dis thi ete
und the pro's "pro gut" tra.

to cre the ete, the pro exp con
eff to ide, tra and pro pub dom
wor.  des the eff, the pro's ete and any
med the may be on may con "def".  amo oth
thi, def may tak the for of inc, ina or
cor dat, tra err, a cop or oth
int pro inf, a def or dam
dis or oth ete med, a com vir, or com
cod tha dam or can be rea by you equ.

lim war; dis of dam
but for the "rig of rep or ref" des bel,
[1] the pro (and any oth par you may rec thi
ete fro as a pro gut-tm ete) dis all
lia to you for dam, cos and exp, inc
leg fee, and [2] you hav no rem for neg or
und str lia, or for bre of war or con,
inc but not lim to ind, con, pun
or inc dam, eve if you giv not of the
pos of suc dam.

if you dis a def in thi ete wit 90 day of
rec it, you can rec a ref of the mon (if any)
you pai for it by sen an exp not wit tha
tim to the per you rec it fro.  if you rec it
on a phy med, you mus ret it wit you not, and
suc per may cho to alt giv you a rep
cop.  if you rec it ele, suc per may
cho to alt giv you a sec opp to
rec it ele.

thi ete is oth pro to you "as-is".  no oth
war of any kin, exp or imp, are mad to you as
to the ete or any med it may be on, inc but not
lim to war of mer or fit for a
par pur.

som sta do not all dis of imp war or
the exc or lim of con dam, so the
abo dis and exc may not app to you, and you
may hav oth leg rig.

ind
you wil ind and hol the pro, its dir,
off, mem and age har fro all lia, cos
and exp, inc leg fee, tha ari dir or
ind fro any of the fol tha you do or cau:
[1] dis of thi ete, [2] alt, mod,
or add to the ete, or [3] any def.

dis und "pro gut-tm"
you may dis cop of thi ete ele, or by
dis, boo or any oth med if you eit del thi
"sma pri!" and all oth ref to pro gut,
or:

[1]  onl giv exa cop of it.  amo oth thi, thi
     req tha you do not rem, alt or mod the
     ete or thi "sma pri!" sta.  you may how,
     if you wis, dis thi ete in mac rea
     bin, com, mar-up, or pro for,
     inc any for res fro con by wor
     pro or hyp sof, but onl so lon as
     *eit*:

     [*]  the ete, whe dis, is cle rea, and
          doe *not* con cha oth tha tho
          int by the aut of the wor, alt til
          (~), ast (*) and und (_) cha may
          be use to con pun int by the
          aut, and add cha may be use to
          ind hyp lin; or

     [*]  the ete may be rea con by the rea at
          no exp int pla asc, ebc or equ
          for by the pro tha dis the ete (as is
          the cas, for ins, wit mos wor pro);
          or

     [*]  you pro, or agr to als pro on req at
          no add cos, fee or exp, a cop of the
          ete in its ori pla asc for (or in ebc
          or oth equ pro for).

[2]  hon the ete ref and rep pro of thi
     "sma pri!" sta.

[3]  pay a tra lic fee to the pro of 20% of the
     gro pro you der cal usi the met you
     alr use to cal you app tax.  if you
     don't der pro, no roy is due.  roy are
     pay to "pro gut lit arc fou"
     the 60 day fol eac dat you pre (or wer
     leg req to pre) you ann (or equ
     per) tax ret.  ple con us bef to
     let us kno you pla and to wor out the det.

wha if you *wan* to sen mon eve if you don't hav to?
the pro gra acc con of mon, tim,
pub dom ete, and roy fre cop lic.
if you are int in con sca equ or
sof or oth ite, ple con mic har at:
har@pob.com

*end the sma pri! for pub dom ete*ver.04.07.00*end*



thi ete was pre by san ste <unf@aol.com>
and jim tin <jti@pob.com>






the ili of hom



pre not



the exe of thi ver of the ili has bee ent to the
thr tra in the fol thr par:

     boo      i. - ix.     .  .  .  .  w. lea.
       "        x. - xvi.    .  .  .  .  a. lan.
       "     xvi. - xxi.   .  .  .  .  e. mye.

eac tra is the res for his own por; but
the who has bee rev by all thr tra, and the
ren of pas or phr rec in mor tha one por
has bee det aft del in com. eve in the,
how, a cer ela has bee dee des.

on a few dou poi, tho ver rar, the opi of two of
the tra has had to be ado to the sup of tha
hel by the thi. thu, for ins, the tra of boo
x. - xvi. wou hav pre "c" and "us" to "k" and "os" in the
spe of all pro nam.

the tex fol has bee tha of la roc (lei, 1873), exc
whe the ado of a dif rea has bee spe in a
foo. whe the bal of evi, ext and int, has
see to the tra to be aga the gen of the
pas, suc pas has bee enc in bra [].

the tra of boo x. - xvi. has to tha mr. r.w. rap,
fel of tri col, oxf, for his val aid in rev
the pro-she of the boo.


not to rev edi


in the pre edi the tra has bee car rev
thr, and num min cor hav bee mad. the not
at the end of the vol hav bee, wit a few exc, omi;
one of the tra hop to pub ver sho a com to
the ili for eng rea, whi wil dea ful wit mos of
the poi the ref to.

the use of squ bra has in thi edi bee res to
pas whe the is ext evi, suc as abs fro the
bes mss., for bel in int. one or two dep
fro thi rul are not in foo.

nov 1891



the rea wil per als be hel by the fol lis of the
gre and lat nam of the god and god who pla imp
par in the nar. whe the gre nam are new to him, the
cor lat nam may be mor fam.

      gre                 lat
      -----                 -----
      zeu.                 jup.
      her.                 jun.
      (pal) ath.      min.
      aph.            ven.
      pos.             nep.
      are.                 mar.
      hep.           vul.





    the sac soi of ili is ren
      wit sha and pit; foi wat wan slo
    thr pla whe sim and sca wen
      to war wit god and her lon ago.
    not yet to dar cas lyi low
      in ric myc do the fat rel;
    the bon of aga are a sho,
      and rui is his roy mon.
    the dus and awf tre of the dea
      hat lea sca wid; but vai the,
    hom, she met wit her les lea,
      and str to ren thy son, too bli is she
    to kno the cro on thi imm hea
      of ind sup.                      a.l.


    ath the sun of our wes day
      the for of gre ach, hig and cle,
      sta for in arm, wie the pel spe.
    the san tid of tha imm fra,
    swe on by god, aro him sur and swa,
      whe the hel of man a war pee,
      str men and swi, the tos plu upr.
    but str, swi, goo he tha the,
    mor awf, mor div. yet mar ani;
      som fie pan hat ren his sou wit,
       som hov sha his bro enc.
    wha gif hat fat for all his chi?
      eve suc as hea her oft win;
       hon, a fri, ang, unt dea.   e.m.




the ili of hom


boo i.

    how aga and ach fel out at the sie of tro;
    and ach wit him fro bat, and won fro zeu
    a ple tha his wro sho be ave on aga and
    the ach.

sin, god, the wra of ach pel' son, the rui wra tha
bro on the ach woe inn, and hur dow int had
man str sou of her, and gav the bod to be a pre to dog
and all win fow; and so the cou of zeu wro out its
acc fro the day whe fir str par atr kin of
men and nob ach.

who amo the god set the twa at str and var? apo, the son
of let and of zeu; for he in ang at the kin sen a sor pla upo
the hos, so tha the fol beg to per, bec atr had don
dis to chr the pri. for the pri had com to the
ach' fle shi to win his dau's fre, and bro a
ran bey tel; and bar in his han the fil of apo the
far-dar upo a gol sta; and mad his pra unt all the
ach, and mos of all to the two son of atr, ord of the
hos; "ye son of atr and all ye wel-gre ach, now may the
god tha dwe in the man of oly gra you to lay was the
cit of pri, and to far hap hom; onl set ye my dea chi
fre, and acc the ran in rev to the son of zeu, far-dar
apo."

the all the oth ach cri ass, to rev the pri and
acc his goo ran; yet the thi ple not the hea of
aga son of atr, but he rou sen him awa, and lai ste
cha upo him, say: "let me not fin the, old man, ami the hol
shi, whe tar now or ret aga her, les the sta
and fil of the god ava the nau. and her wil i not set fre;
nay, ere tha sha old age com on her in our hou, in arg, far fro
her nat lan, whe she sha ply the loo and ser my cou. but
dep, pro me not, tha tho may the rat go in pea."

so sai he, and the old man was afr and obe his wor, and far
sil alo the sho of the lou-sou sea. the wen tha age
man apa and pra alo to kin apo, who let of the fai loc
bar: "hea me, god of the sil bow, tha sta ove chr and
hol kil, and rul ten wit mig, o smi! if eve i bui
a tem gra in thi eye, or if eve i bur to the fat fle of
thi of bul or goa, ful tho thi my des; let the dan
pay by thi arr for my tea."

so spa he in pra, and pho apo hea him, and cam dow fro
the pea of oly wro at hea, bea on his sho his bow
and cov qui. and the arr cla upo his sho in wra,
as the god mov; and he des lik to nig. the he sat him alo
fro the shi, and let an arr fly; and the was hea a dre
cla of the sil bow. fir did the ass the mul and fle
dog, but aft, aim at the men his pie dar, he smo; and
the pyr of the dea bur con in mul.

now for nin day ran the god's sha thr the hos; but on the
ten ach sum the fol to ass, for in his min did
god her of whi arm put the tho, bec she had pit on the
dan whe she beh the per. now whe the had gat and
wer met in ass, the ach fle of foo sto up and spa
amo the: "son of atr, now dee i tha we sha ret wan
hom aga--if ver we mig esc dea--if war at onc and
pes mus ind rav the ach. but com, let us now inq
of som soo or pri, yea, or an int of dre--see
tha a dre too is of zeu--who sha say whe pho apo is
so wro, whe he bla us by rea of vow or hec; if per
he wou acc the sav of lam or unb goa, and so wou
tak awa the pes fro us."

so spa he and sat him dow; and the sto up bef the kal
son of the, mos exc far of aug, who kne bot thi tha
wer and tha sho be and tha had bee bef, and gui the shi
of the ach to ili by his soo tha pho apo bes
on him. he of goo int mad har and spa ami the: "ach,
dea to zeu, tho bid me tel the wra of apo, the kin tha
smi afa. the wil i spe; but do tho mak cov wit me,
and swe tha ver wit all thy hea tho wil aid me bot by wor
and dee. for of a tru i dee tha i sha pro one tha rul all
the arg wit mig, and who the ach obe. for a kin is mor
of mig whe he is wro wit a mea man; eve tho for the one day
he swa his ang, yet dot he sti kee his dis the
in his bre til he acc it. con tho, the, if tho wil
hol me saf."

and ach fle of foo mad ans and spa to him: "yea, be of
goo cou, spe wha soo tho kno; for by apo
dea to zeu, him by who wor tho, o kal, dec thy
soo to the dan, not eve if tho mea aga, tha now
avo him to be gre far of the ach."

the was the nob see of goo cou, and spa: "nei by rea
of a vow is he dis, nor for any hec, but for his pri's
sak to who aga did des, and set not his dau fre and
acc not the ran; the hat the far-dar bro woe upo
us, yea, and wil bri. nor wil he eve rem the loa pes
fro the dan til we hav giv the bri-eye dam to her
fat, unb, unr, and car a hol hec to chr;
the mig we pro him to our pra."

so sai he and sat him dow, and the sto up bef the the her
son of atr, wid-rul aga, sor dis; and his dar
hea wit him was gre fil wit ang, and his eye wer lik
fla fir. to kal fir spa he wit loo of ill: "tho see of
evi, nev yet has tho tol me the thi tha is ple. evi is
eve the joy of thy hea to pro, but nev yet did tho tel any
goo mat nor bri to pas. and now wit soo tho mak
har amo the dan, how tha the far-dar bri woe upo
the bec, for, i wou not tak the goo ran of the dam
chr, see i am the rat fai to kee her own sel wit min
hou. yea, i pre her bef kly my wed wif; in no wis
is she lac bes her, nei in fav nor sta, nor wit nor
ski. yet for all thi wil i giv her bac, if tha is bet; rat
wou i see my fol who tha per. onl mak ye me rea a pri
of hon for, les i alo of all the arg be dis, whi
thi bes not; for ye all beh how my pri is dep fro
me."

to him the mad ans fle-foo goo ach: "mos nob son of
atr, of all men mos cov, how sha the gre-hea ach
giv the a mee of hon? we kno nau of any wea of com
sto, but wha spo soe'er we too fro cap cit hat bee
app, and it bes not to beg all thi bac fro the fol.
nay, yie tho the dam to the god, and we ach wil pay the
bac thr and fou, if eve zeu gra us to sac som
wel-wal tow of tro-lan."

to him lor aga mad ans and sai: "not in thi wis, str as
tho art, o god ach, beg tho me by cra; tho sha not
out me nor per me. dos tho wis, tha tho may kee thy
mee of hon, for me to sit idl in ber, and bid me giv
her bac? nay, if the gre-hea ach wil giv me a mee sui
to my min, tha the rec be equ--but if the giv it not, the
i mys wil go and tak a mee of hon, thi be it or aia', or
ody' tha i wil tak unt me; wro sha he be to who i
com. but for thi we wil tak cou her; now let us lau a
bla shi on the gre sea, and gat pic oar, and set the
a hec, and emb chr of the fai che her, and let one
of our cou be cap, aia or ido or goo ody, or
tho, pel, mos red of men, to do sac for us and
pro the far-dar."

the ach fle of foo loo at him sco and sai: "ah me,
tho clo in sha, tho of cra min, how sha any
ach hea to thy bid wit all his hea, be it to go a jou
or to fig the foe ama? not by rea of the tro spe cam i
hit to fig, for the hav not wro me; nev did the har min
oxe nor my hor, nor eve was my har in dee-soi pht, the
nur of men; see the lie bet us lon spa of sha
mou and sou sea; but the, tho sha one, fol we
hit to mak the gla, by ear rec at the tro' han
for men and for the, tho dog-fac! all thi tho thr
thy to tak my mee of hon, whe i tra muc, and the
son of the ach gav it me. nev win i mee lik unt thi, whe
the ach sac any pop cit of tro men; my han bea the
bru of fur war, but whe the app com the is thy mee
far amp, and i bet me to the shi wit som sma thi, yet my
own, whe i hav fou to wea. now wil i dep to pht,
see it is far bet to ret hom on my bea shi; nor am i
min her in dis to dra the thy fil of ric and wea."

the aga kin of men mad ans to him "yea, fle, if thy sou be
set the. it is not i tha bes the to tar for my sak; i hav
oth by my sid tha sha do me hon, and abo all zeu, lor of
cou. mos hat art tho to me of all kin, fos of zeu;
tho eve lov str and war and fig. tho tho be ver
str, yet tha i wee is a gif to the of god. go hom wit thy shi
and com and lor it amo thy myr; i rec not aug of the
nor car i for thi ind; and all thi sha be my thr to
the: see pho apo ber me of chr, her wit my shi
and my com wil i sen bac; and min own sel wil i go to thy hut
and tak bri of the fai che, eve tha thy mee of hon, tha
tho may wel kno how far gre i am tha tho, and so sha
ano her abh to mat his wor wit min and riv me to my
fac."

so sai he, and gri cam upo pel' son, and his hea wit his
sha bre was div in cou, whe to dra his kee bla
fro his thi and set the com asi and so sla atr, or to
ass his ang and cur his sou. whi yet he dou the in
hea and sou, and was dra his gre swo fro his she, ath
cam to him fro hea, sen for of the whi-arm god her,
who hea lov bot ali and had car for the. she sto beh
pel' son and cau him by his gol hai, to him onl vis, and
of the res no man beh her. the ach mar, and tur him
abo, and str kne pal ath; and ter sho her eye.
he spa to her win wor, and sai: "why now art tho com hit,
tho dau of aeg-bea zeu? is it to beh the ins of
aga, son of atr. yea, i wil tel the tha i dee sha eve
be bro to pas: by his own hau sha he soo los his
lif."

the the bri-eye god ath spa to him aga: "i cam fro
hea to sta thi ang, if per tho wil hea to me, bei
sen for if the whi-arm god her, tha lov you twa ali
and car for you. go to now, cea fro str, and let not thi han
dra the swo; yet wit wor ind rev him, eve as it sha com
to pas. for thu wil i say to the, and so it sha be ful;
her sha goo gif com to the, yea in thr mea, by
rea of thi des; hol tho thi han, and hea to us."

and ach fle of foo mad ans and sai to her: "god, nee
mus a man obs the say of you twa, eve tho he be ver wro
at hea; for so is the bet way. who obe the god, to him
the gla hea."

he sai, and sta his hea han on the sil hil, and thr the
gre swo bac int the she, and was not dis to the say
of ath; and she for was dep to oly, to the oth god
in the pal of aeg-bea zeu.

the pel' son spa aga wit bit wor to atr' son, and in no
wis cea fro ang: "tho hea wit win, tho wit fac of dog and
hea of dee, nev did tho tak cou to arm for bat amo thy
fol or to lay amb wit the pri of the ach; tha to the
wer eve as dea. far bet boo it, for soo, to sei for
thy the mee of hon of eve man thr the wid hos of the
ach tha spe con to the. fol-dev kin! see
tho rul men of nau; els wer thi des, tho son of atr,
thy las. but i wil spe my wor to the, and swe a mig oat
the: ver by thi sta tha sha no mor put for lea or
twi, see it hat for eve lef its tru amo the hil, nei
sha it gro gre aga, bec the axe hat str it of lea
and bar; and now the son of the ach tha exe jud bea
it in the han, eve the tha by zeu' com wat ove the
tra--so sha thi be a mig oat in thi eye--ver sha
lon for ach com her upo the son of the ach one
and all; and the wil tho in no wis ava to sav the, for all thy
gri, whe mul fal dyi bef man hec. the sha
tho tea thy hea wit the for ang tha tho did in no wis
hon the bes of the ach."

so sai pel and das to ear the sta stu wit gol
nai, and him sat dow; and ove aga him atr wax
fur. the in the mid ros up nes, ple of spe, the
cle-voi ora of the pyl, he fro who ton flo
dis swe tha hon. two gen of mor men alr had
he see per, tha had bee of old tim bor and nur wit him in
goo pyl, and he was kin amo the thi. he of goo int mad
har to the and sai: "ala, of a tru sor lam com
upo the lan of ach. ver pri wou be gla and pri's son,
and all the tro wou hav gre joy of hea, wer the to hea all
thi tal of str bet you twa tha are chi of the dan
in cou and chi in bat. nay, hea to me; ye are you
bot tha i. of old day hel i con wit bet men eve tha you,
and nev did the mak lig of me. yea, i nev beh suc war,
nor sha beh, as wer pei and dry she of the hos and
kai and exa and god pol [and the son of aig,
lik to the imm]. mig of gro wer the of all men upo
the ear; mig the wer and wit the mig fou the, eve
the wil tri of the mou cav, and des the utt. and
wit the hel i con, bei com fro pyl, fro a dis lan
afa; for of the the sum me. so i pla my par in fig;
and wit the cou non of men tha are now on ear do bat. and
the lai to hea my cou and hea to my voi. eve so
hea ye als, for bet is it to hea. nei do tho, tho
tho art ver gre, sei fro him his dam, but lea her as she was
giv at the fir by the son of the ach to be a mee of hon;
nor do tho, son of pel, thi to str wit a kin, mig aga
mig; see tha no com hon per to a sce kin to
who zeu app glo. tho tho be str, and a god
mot bar the, yet his is the gre pla, for he is kin ove
mor. and tho, atr, aba thy fur; nay, it is eve i tha bes
the to let go thi ang wit ach, who is mad unt all the
ach a mig bul of evi war."

the lor aga ans and sai: "yea ver, old man, all thi
tho say is acc unt rig. but thi fel wou be abo all
oth, he wou be lor of all and kin amo all and cap to all;
whe i dee non wil hea to him. tho the imm god mad
him a spe, do the the put rev in his mou for him to
utt?"

the goo ach bra in on him and ans: "yea, for i sho be
cal cow and man of nau, if i yie to the in eve mat,
how'er tho bid. to oth giv now thi ord, not to me [pla
mas; for the i dee tha i sha no mor obe]. thi, mor, wil
i say to the, and do tho lay it to thy hea. kno tha not by
vio wil i str for the dam's sak, nei wit the nor any
oth; ye gav and ye hav tak awa. but of all els tha is min
bes my fle bla shi, the sha tho not tak any or bea
it awa aga my wil. yea, go to now, mak tri, tha all the may
see; for thy dar blo sha gus abo my spe."

now whe the twa had thu fin the bat of vio wor, the
sto up and dis the ass bes the ach shi. pel
wen his way to his hut and tri shi wit men' son [pat]
and his com; and atr lau a fle shi on the sea, and
pic twe oar the, and emb the hec for the god,
and bro chr of the fai che and set her the; and
ody of man dev wen to be the cap.

so the emb and sai ove the wet way; and atr bad the
fol pur the. so the pur the, and cas the
def int the sea and did sac to apo, eve unb
hec of bul and goa, alo the sho of the unv sea; and
the swe sav aro to hea edd ami the smo.

thu wer the bus thr the hos; but aga cea not fro
the str whe he thr ach at the fir; he spa to
tal and eur tha wer his her and nim squ: "go
ye to the ten of ach pel' son, and tak bri of the fai
che by the han and lea her hit; and if he giv her not, the
wil i mys go, and mor wit me, and sei her; and tha wil be yet
mor gri for him."

so say he sen the for, and lai ste cha upo the.
unw wen the alo the bea of the unv sea, and cam to
the hut and shi of the myr. him fou the sit bes his
hut and bla shi; nor whe he saw the was ach gla. so the in
dre and rev of the kin sto, and spa to him no wor, nor
que him. but he kne in his hea, and spa to the: "all hai,
ye her, mes of zeu and men, com nea; ye are not gui in
my sig, but aga tha sen you for the sak of the dam
bri. go now, hea-spr pat, bri for the dam, and
giv the her to lea awa. mor, let the twa the be my
wit bef the fac of the ble god and mor men, yea and of
him, tha kin unt, aga the day whe the com nee of me
her to sav the all fro sha wre. of a tru he rav
wit bal min, and hat not kno to loo bef and aft, tha
so his ach mig bat in saf bes the shi."

so sai he, and pat hea to his dea com, and led for
fro the hut bri of the fai che, and gav the her to lea awa.
so the twa too the way bac alo the ach' shi, and wit
the wen the wom all unw. the ach wep ano, and sat him
dow apa, alo fro his com on the bea of the gre sea, gaz
acr the bou mai; he str for his han and pra
ins to his dea mot: "mot, see tho did of a tru bea
me to so bri spa of lif, hon at the lea oug the oly to
hav gra me, eve zeu tha thu on hig; but now dot he not
hon me, no, not one whi. ver atr' son, wid-rul aga,
hat don me dis; for he hat tak awa my mee of hon and
kee her of his own vio dee."

so spa he wee, and his lad mot hea him as she sat in the
sea-dep bes her age sir. wit spe aro she fro the gre sea,
lik a mis, and sat her bef the fac of her wee son, and
str him wit her han, and spa and cal on his nam: "my chi,
why wee tho? wha sor hat ent int the hea? spe it
for, hid it not in thy min, tha bot may kno it."

the wit hea moa ach fle of foo spa to her: "tho kno
it; why sho i tel thi to the tha kno all! we had far to
the, the hol cit of eet, and lai it was and car hit all
the spo. so the son of the ach div amo the all ari;
and for atr the set apa chr of the fai che. but
chr, pri of apo the far-dar, cam unt the fle shi of
the mai-cla ach to win his dau's fre, and bro a
ran bey tel, and bar in his han the fil of apo the
far-dar upo a gol sta, and mad his pra unt all the
ach, and mos of all to the two son of atr, ord of the
hos. the all the oth ach cri ass, to rev the pri
and acc his goo ran; yet the thi ple not the hea of
aga son of atr, but he rou sen him awa and lai ste
cha upo him. so the old man wen bac in ang; and apo hea his
pra, see he lov him gre, and he aim aga the arg
his dea dar. so the peo beg to per in mul, and the
god's sha ran eve thr the wid hos of the
ach. the of ful kno the see dec to us the ora of
the far-dar. for i fir bad pro the god; but wra gat
hol upo atr' son the, and ano he sto up and spa a
thr wor, tha hat now bee acc. her the gla-eye
ach are bri on the fle shi to chr, and bea wit
the off to the kin; and the oth but now the her wen and
too fro my hut, eve the dau of bri, who the son of the
ach gav me. tho the, if ind tho can, gua thi own
son; bet the to oly and bes zeu by any wor whe tho
eve did mak gla his hea. for oft hav i hea the pro in
my fat's hal and tel tha tho alo ami the imm did
sav the son of kro, lor of the sto-clo, fro sha wre,
whe all the oth oly wou hav bou him, eve her and
pos and pal ath. the did tho, o god, ent in and
loo him fro his bon, hav wit spe sum to hig oly him
of the hun arm who god cal bri, but all men cal aig;
for he is mig eve tha his fat--so he sat him by kro's
sid rej in his tri, and the ble god fea him wit
and bou not zeu. thi bri tho to his rem and sit by him
and cla his kne, if per he wil giv suc to the tro;
and for the ach, hem the amo the shi' ste abo the bay,
giv ove to sla; tha the may mak tri of the kin, and
tha eve atr, wid-rul aga, may per his bli,
in tha he hon not at all the bes of the ach."

the the wee mad ans to him: "ah me, my chi, why rea i
the, cur in my mot? wou tho had bee lef tea and
gri ami the shi, see thy lot is ver bri and end no
lon whi; but now art tho mad sho-liv ali and lam
bey all men; in an evi hou i bar the in our hal. but i wil go
mys to sno-cla oly to tel thi thy say to zeu, who joy
is in the thu, [per rat, "hur of the thu."] if
per he may hea to me. but tar tho now ami thy fle-far
shi, and con wro wit the ach, and ref utt fro
bat: for zeu wen yes to oke, unt the nob eth
for a fea, and all the god fol wit him; but on the twe day
wil he ret to oly, and the wil i far to zeu' pal of the
bro thr, and wil kne to him and thi to win him."

so say she wen her way and lef him the, vex in spi for the
fai-gir wom's sak, who the had tak per des his
wil: and mea ody cam to chr wit the hol hec. whe
the wer now ent wit the dee hav, the fur the sai and
lai the in the bla shi, and low the mas by the for and
bro it to the cru wit spe, and row her wit oar to the
anc. the the cas out the moo sto and mad fas the
haw, and so the wen for on to the sea-bea, and for
the bro the hec for the far-dar apo, and for cam
chr wit fro the sea shi. the ody of man cou
bro her to the alt and gav her int her fat's arm, and spa
unt him: "chr, aga kin of men sen me hit to bri the
thy dau, and to off to pho a hol hec on the dan'
beh, whe to pro the kin tha hat now bro sor
and lam on the arg."

so say he gav her to his arm, and he gla too his dea chi;
and ano the set in ord for the god the hol hec abo his
wel-bui alt; nex was the the han and too up the bar
mea. the chr lif up his han and pra alo for the:
"hea to me, god of the sil bow tha sta ove chr and hol
kil, and rul ten wit mig; eve as ers tho hea my
pra, and did me hon, and mig aff the peo of the
ach, eve so now ful me thi my des: rem tho fro the
dan for the loa pes."

so spa he in pra, and pho apo hea him. now whe the had
pra and spr the bar mea, fir the dre bac the vic'
hea and sla the and fla the, and cut sli fro the
thi and wra the in fat, mak a dou fol, and lai raw
col the, and the old man bur the on cle woo and mad
lib ove the of gle win; and at his sid the you men in
the han hel fiv-pro for. now whe the thi wer bur and
the had tas the vit, the sli the all the res and pie it
thr wit spi, and roa it car, and dre all off aga. so
whe the had res fro the tas and had mad rea the ban, the
fea, nor was the hea aug sti of the fai ban. but whe
the had put awa fro the the des of mea and dri, the you men
cro the bow wit win, and gav eac man his por aft the
dri-off had bee pou int the cup. so all day lon wor
the the god wit mus, sin the bea pae, the son of the
ach mak mus to the far-dar [or, "the ave" (of
pes)]; and his hea was gla to hea. and whe the sun wen dow
and dar cam on the, the lai the to sle bes the shi's
haw; and whe ros-fin daw app, the chi of mor,
the set the sai for the wid cam of the ach; and apo the
far-dar sen the a fav gal. the set up the mas and spr
the whi sai for, and the win fil the sai's bel and the dar
wav san lou abo the ste as the shi mad way, and she spe acr
the wav, acc her jou. so whe the wer now com to the
wid cam of the ach, the dre up the bla shi to lan hig
upo the san, and set in lin the lon pro ben her; and
the wer sca ami the hut and shi.

but he sat by his swi-far shi, sti wro, eve the hea-spr
son of pel, ach fle of foo; he bet him nei to the
ass tha is the her's glo, nei to war, but con his
hea in tar in his pla, and yea for the war-cry and for
bat.

now whe the twe mor the was com, the the god tha are
for eve far to oly all in com, led of zeu. and the for
not her son's cha, but ros up fro the sea-wav, and at ear mor
mou up to gre hea and oly. the fou she kro' son of
the far-sou voi sit apa fro all on the top pea of
man-rid oly. so she sat bef his fac and wit her lef han
cla his kne, and wit her rig tou him ben his chi, and
spa in pra to kin zeu son of kro: "fat zeu, if eve i gav
the aid ami the imm god, whe by wor or dee, ful tho
thi my des: do hon to my son, tha is doo to ear dea of
all men: now hat aga kin of men don him dis, for he hat
tak awa his mee of hon and kee her of his own vio dee.
but hon tho him, zeu of oly, lor of cou; gra tho
vic to the tro the whi unt the ach do my son hon and
exa him wit rec."

so spa she; but zeu the clo-gat sai no wor to her, and sat
lon tim in sil. but eve as the had cla his kne, so hel
she by him cli, and que him yet a sec tim: "pro me
now thi thi ver, and bow thy hea the; or els den me, see
the is nau for the to fea; tha i may kno ful wel how i amo
all god am lea in hon."

the zeu the clo-gat, sor tro, spa to her: "ver it is
a sor mat, if tho wil set me at var wit her, whe'er she
pro me wit tau wor. eve now she upb me eve ami
the imm god, and sai tha i aid the tro in bat. but do
tho now dep aga, les her mar aug; and i wil tak tho for
the thi to ful the. com now, i wil bow my hea to the, tha
tho may be of goo cou; for tha, of my par, is the sur
tok ami the imm; no wor of min is rev nor fal nor
unf whe the bow of my hea hat ple it."

kro spa, and bow his dar bro, and the amb loc wav
fro the kin's imm hea; and he mad gre oly qua.

thu the twa too cou and par; she lea the int the
dee sea fro gli oly, and zeu far to his own pal. all
the god in com aro fro the sea bef the fat's fac;
nei ven any to awa his com, but sto up all bef him.
so he sat him the upo his thr; but her saw, and was not ign
how tha the dau of the anc of the sea, the the
sil-foo, had dev cou wit him. ano wit tau wor
spa she to zeu the son of kro: "now who amo the god, tho
cra of min, hat dev cou wit the? it is eve thy goo
ple to hol alo fro me and in sec med to giv thy
jud, nor of thi own goo wil has tho eve bro thy to
dec unt me the thi tho pur."

the the fat of god and men mad ans her: "her, thi not tho
to kno all my say; har the are for the, eve tho tho art my
wif. but whi it is see for the to hea, non soo tha
tho sha kno, be he god or man. onl whe i wil to tak tho
alo fro the god, the do not tho ask of eve mat nor mak
que."

the her the ox-eye que mad ans to him. "mos dre son of
kro, wha wor is thi tho has spo? yea, sur of old i hav
not ask the nor mad que, but in my hea sor afr les tho
hav bee won ove by sil-foo the, dau of the anc of
the sea, for she at ear mor sat by the and cla thy kne. to her
i dee tho gav a sur ple tha tho wil do hon to ach,
and lay man low bes the ach' shi."

to her mad ans zeu the clo-gat: "lad, goo lac! eve art
tho ima, nor can i esc the; yet sha tho in no wis hav
pow to ful, but wil be the fur fro my hea; tha sha be
eve the wor for the. and if it be so, the suc mus my goo
ple be. abi tho in sil and hea to my bid, les all
the god tha are in oly kee not off fro the my vis, whe
i put for my han una aga the."

he sai, and her the ox-eye que was afr, and sat in sil,
cur her hea; but thr zeu' pal the god of hea wer
tro. the hep the fam cra beg to mak har
amo the, to do kin to his mot, whi-arm her: "ver thi
wil be a sor mat, nei any mor end, if ye twa thu
fig for mor' sak, and bri wra amo the god; nei
wil the any mor be joy of the goo fea, see tha evi
tri. so i giv cou to my mot, tho her is wis, to
do kin to our dea fat zeu, tha our fat upb us not
aga and cas the ban in con. wha if the oly, the lor
of the lig, wil to das us fro our sea! for he is str
far. nay, app tho him wit gen wor, the wil the oly
for be gra unt us."

so spe he ros up and sat in his dea mot's han the twy-han
cup, and spa to her: "be of goo cou, mot min, and end,
tho tho art vex, les i beh the, tho art so dea, cha
bef min eye, and the sha i not be abl for all my sor to sav
the; for the oly is a har foe to fac. yea, onc ere thi, whe i
was fai to sav the, he cau me by my foo and hur me fro the
hea thr; all day i fle, and at the set of sun i fel in
lem, and lit lif was in me. the did the sin fol for
ten me for my fal."

he spa, and the whi-arm god her smi, and smi too the
cup at her son's han. the he pou win to all the oth god fro
rig to lef, lad the swe nec fro the bow. and lau
unq aro ami the ble god to see hep bus
thr the pal.

so fea the all day til the set of the sun; nor was the sou
aug sti of the fai ban, nor of the bea lyr tha apo
hel, and the mus sin alt wit swe voi.

now whe the bri lig of the sun was set, the wen eac to his own
hou to sle, whe eac one had his pal mad wit cun dev
by fam hep the lam god; and zeu the oly, the lor of
lig, dep to his cou whe he was won of old to tak his
res, whe swe sle vis him. the wen he up and sle, and
bes him was her of the gol thr.



boo ii.

    how zeu beg aga by a dre; and of the ass
    of the ach and the mar for to bat. and of
    the nam and num of the hos of the ach and the
    tro.

now all oth god and cha-dri men sle all nig lon, onl
zeu was not hol of swe sle; rat was he pon in his hea
how he sho do hon to ach and des man bes the
ach' shi. and thi des see to his min the bes, to wit, to
sen a ban dre upo aga son of atr. so he spa, and
utt to him win wor: "com now, tho ban dre, go to the
ach' fle shi, ent int the hut of aga son of atr,
and tel him eve wor pla as i cha the. bid him cal to arm
the flo-hai ach wit all spe, for tha now he may tak the
wid-way cit of the tro. for the imm tha dwe in the
hal of oly are no lon div in cou, sin her hat
tur the min of all by her bes, and ove the tro sor
han."

so spa he, and the dre wen his way whe he had hea the cha.
wit spe he cam to the ach' fle shi, and wen to aga
son of atr, and fou him sle in his hut, and amb slu
pou ove him. so he sto ove his hea in see lik unt the son
of nel, eve nes, who mos of all the eld aga hon;
in his lik spa to him the hea dre:

"sle tho, son of wis atr tam of hor? to sle all nig
thr bes not one tha is a cou, to who peo are
ent and so man car bel. but now hea str to me,
for i am a mes to the fro zeu, who tho he be afa yet hat
gre car for the and pit. he bid the cal to arm the
flo-hai ach wit all spe, for tha now tho may tak
the wid-way cit of the tro. for the imm tha dwe in the
hal of oly are no lon div in cou, sin her hat
tur the min of all by her bes, and ove the tro sor
han by the wil of zeu. but do tho kee thi in thy hea, not let
for com upo the whe hon sle sha lea the."

so spa the dre, and dep and lef him the, dee in his min
thi tha wer not to be ful. for ind he tho to tak
pri's cit tha ver day; fon man, in tha he kne not the pla tha
zeu had in min, who was wil to bri yet mor gri and wai on
tro ali and dan thr the cou of stu fig. the
wok he fro sle, and the hea voi was in his ear. so he ros
up sit, and don his sof tun, fai and bri, and cas aro
him his gre clo, and ben his gli fee he bou his fai
san, and ove his sho cas his sil-stu swo, and
gra his sir' sce, imp for eve, whe he too his
way ami the mai-cla ach' shi.

now wen the god daw to hig oly, for day to zeu
and all the imm; and the kin bad the cle-voi her sum
to the ass the flo-hai ach. so did tho sum, and
the gat wit spe.

but fir the cou of the gre-hea eld met bes the shi of
kin nes the pyl-bor. and he tha had ass the fra his
cun cou: "hea, my fri. a dre fro hea cam to me in
my sle thr the amb nig, and chi to goo nes was
ver lik in sha and bul and sta. and it sto ove my hea and
cha me say: 'sle tho, son of wis atr tam of hor?
to sle all nig thr bes not one tha is a cou, to
who peo are ent and so man car bel. but now hea
str to me, for i am a mes to the fro zeu, who tho he
be afa yet hat gre car for the and pit. he bid the cal to
arm the flo-hai ach wit all spe, for tha now tho
may tak the wid-way cit of the tro. for the imm tha
dwe in the pal of oly are no lon div in cou, sin
her hat tur the min of all by her bes, and ove the
tro sor han by the wil of zeu. but do tho kee thi in thy
hea.' so spa the dre and was flo awa, and swe sle lef me.
so com, let us now cal to arm as we may the son of the ach. but
fir i wil spe to mak tri of the as is fit, and bid the
fle wit the ben shi; onl do ye fro thi sid and fro tha
spe to hol the bac."

so spa he and sat him dow; and the sto up amo the nes, who
was kin of san pyl. he of goo int mad har to the and
sai: "my fri, cap and rul of the arg, had any oth of
the ach tol us thi dre we mig dee it a fal thi, and
rat tur awa the; but now he hat see it who of all ach
avo him far gre. so com, let us cal to arm as we may the
son of the ach."

so spa he, and led the way for fro the cou, and all the oth
sce chi ros wit him and obe the she of the hos; and
the peo has to the. eve as whe the tri of thr bee
iss fro the hol roc, eve in fre pro, and fly clu
amo the flo of spr, and som on thi han and som on tha fly
thi; eve so fro shi and hut bef the low bea mar for
the man tri by com to the pla of ass. and in the
mid bla for rum, mes of zeu, urg the to go; and so
the gat. and the pla of ass was in an upr, and the
ear ech aga as the hos sat the dow, and the was tur.
nin her res the wit sho, if per the mig
ref fro cla, and hea to the kin, the fos of
zeu. and har at the las wou the peo sit, and kee the to
the ben and cea fro noi. the sto up lor aga bea
his sce, tha hep had wro cur. hep gav it
to kin zeu son of kro, and the zeu gav it to the mes-god
the sla of arg [or, pos, "the swi-app"]; and kin
her gav it to pel the cha, and pel aga gav it to
atr she of the hos. and atr dyi lef it to thy ric
in flo, and thy in his tur lef it to aga to bea, tha
ove man isl and all arg he sho be lor. the he lea and
spa his say to the arg:

"my fri, dan war, men of are' com, zeu kro' son
hat bou me wit mig in gri bli of sou; har of hea is
he, for tha ere he pro me and ple his nod tha not til i
had was wel-wal ili sho i ret; but now see i tha he
pla a cru wil and bid me ret to arg dis, wit
the los of man of my fol. so mes it ple mos mig zeu,
who hat lai low the hea of man a cit, yea, and sha lay low; for
his is hig pow. sha is thi eve for the tha com aft to
hea; how so goo and gre a fol of the ach thu vai war
a boo war, and fou sca ene, and no end the is yet
see. for if per we wer min, bot ach and tro, to
swe a sol tru, and to num our, and if the tro sho
gat tog all tha hav the dwe in the cit, and we
ach sho mar our by ten, and eve com cho a
tro to pou the win, the wou man ten lac a cup-bea: so
muc, i say, do the son of the ach out the tro tha
dwe wit the cit. but all fro man cit, eve war tha
wie the spe, are the, and the hin me per, and for all
my wil suf me not to was the pop cit of ili. alr
hav nin yea of gre zeu pas awa, and our shi' tim hav
rot and the tac is loo; whi the our wiv and lit
chi sit in our hal awa us; yet is our tas utt
una whe we cam hit. so com, eve as i bid let us
all obe. let us fle wit our shi to our dea nat lan; for now
sha we nev tak wid-way tro."

so spa he, and sti the spi in the bre of all thr the
mul, as man as had not hea the cou. and the ass swa
lik hig sea-wav of the ica mai tha eas win and sou win
rai, rus upo the fro the clo of fat zeu; and eve as
whe the wes win com to sti a dee cor wit vio bla,
and the ear bow dow, so was all the ass sti, and the wit
sho has tow the shi; and the dus fro ben the fee
ros and sto on hig. and the bad eac man his nei to sei the
shi and dra the int the bri sal sea, and cle out the
lau-way, and the noi wen up to hea of the hur
hom; and the beg to tak the pro fro ben the shi.

the wou the arg hav acc the ret aga the wil
of fat, but tha her spa a wor to ath: "out on it, dau of
aeg-bea zeu, unw mai! sha the arg thu ind fle
hom to the dea nat lan ove the sea's bro bac? but the
wou lea to pri and the tro the boa, eve hel of arg,
for who sak man an ach hat per in tro, far awa fro his
dea nat lan. but go tho now ami the hos of the mai-cla
ach; wit thy gen wor ref tho eve man, nei suf
the to dra the cur shi dow to the sal sea."

so spa she, and the bri-eye god ath dis not; but
wen dar dow fro the pea of oly, and cam wit spe to the
fle shi of the ach. the fou she ody sta, pee of
zeu in cou, nei lai he any han upo his dec bla shi,
bec gri had ent int his hea and sou. and bri-eye
ath sto by him and sai: "hea-spr son of lae, ody of
man dev, wil ye ind fli you upo you ben shi to
fle hom to you dea nat lan? but ye wou lea to pri and
the tro the boa, eve hel of arg, for who sak man an
ach hat per in tro, far fro his dea nat lan. but go
tho now ami the hos of the ach, and tar not; and wit gen
wor ref eve man, nei suf the to dra the cur shi
dow to the sal sea."

so sai she, and he kne the voi of the god spe to him, and
set him to run, and cas awa his man, the whi his her gat
up, eve eur of ith, tha wai on him. and him he wen to
mee aga son of atr, and at his han rec the sce of
his sir, imp for eve, whe he too his way ami the
shi of the mai-cla ach.

whe he fou one tha was a cap and a man of mar, he sto by
his sid, and ref him wit gen wor: "goo sir, it is not
see to aff the lik a cow, but do tho sit thy and mak
all thy fol sit dow. for tho kno not yet cle wha is the
pur of atr' son; now is he but mak tri, and soo he wil
aff the son of the ach. and hea we not all of us wha he
spa in the cou? bew les in his ang he evi ent the
son of the ach. for pro is the sou of hea-fos kin;
bec the hon is of zeu, and the god of cou lov the."

but wha man of the peo he saw and fou him sho, him he
dra wit his sce and cho him wit lou wor: "goo sir, sit
sti and hea to the wor of oth tha are thy bet; but tho
art no war, and a wea, nev rec whe in bat or in
cou. in no wis can we ach all be kin her. a mul of
mas is no goo thi; let the be one mas, one kin, to who the
son of cro-cou kro hat gra it, [eve the sce and
jud, tha he may rul amo you"].

so mas ran he the hos; and the has bac to the ass
fro shi and hut, wit noi as whe a wav of lou-sou sea
roa on the lon bea and the mai res.

now all the res sat dow and kep the pla upo the ben, onl
the sti cha on, the unc spe, who min was
ful of wor man and dis, whe to str aga the
chi idl and in no goo ord, but eve as he dee tha he sho
mak the arg lau. and he was ill-fav bey all men tha cam
to ili. ban-leg was he, and lam of one foo, and his two
sho rou, arc dow upo his che; and ove the his hea
was war, and a sca stu spr on it. hat was he to
ach abo all and to ody, for the he was won to rev. but
now wit shr sho he pou for his upb upo goo
aga. wit him the ach wer sor vex and had ind in
the sou. but he wit lou sho spa and rev aga:
"atr, for wha art tho now ill con and lac? sur thy
hut are ful of bro and man wom are in the hut, the cho
spo tha we ach giv the fir of all, whe'er we tak a tow.
can it be tha tho yet wan gol as wel, suc as som one of the
hor-tam tro may bri fro ili to ran his son, who i
per or som oth ach hav led cap; or els som you
gir, to kno in lov, who tho may kee apa to thy? but it is
not see for one tha is the cap to bri the son of the
ach to ill. sof foo, bas thi of sha, ye wom of ach
and men no mor, let us dep hom wit our shi, and lea thi
fel her in tro-lan to gor him wit mee of hon, tha he may
see whe our aid ava him aug or no; eve he tha hat now don
dis to ach, a far bet man tha he; for he hat tak awa
his mee of hon and kee it by his own vio dee. of a ver
sur is the no wra at all in ach' min, but he is sla; els
thi des, tho son of atr, wer thy las."

so spa the, rev aga she of the hos. but goo
ody cam str to his sid, and loo ste at him wit har
wor reb him: "the, rec in wor, shr ora tho
tho art, ref thy, nor aim to str sin aga kin. for i
dee tha no mor is bas tha tho of all tha wit the son of
atr cam bef ili. the wer it wel tha tho sho not
hav kin in thy mou as tho tal, and utt rev aga
the and be on the wat for dep. we kno not yet cle how
the thi sha be, whe we son of the ach sha ret for
goo or ill. the now dos tho rev con aga son of
atr, she of the hos, bec the dan war giv him man
gif, and so tho tal tau. but i wil tel the pla, and
tha i say sha eve be bro to pas: if i fin the aga rav as
now tho art, the may ody' hea no lon abi upo his
sho, nor may i any mor be cal fat of tel, if i tak
the not and str fro the thy gar, thy man and tun tha
cov thy nak, and for thy sen the wee to the fle
shi, and bea the out of the ass wit sha blo."

so spa he, and wit his sta smo his bac and sho: and he
bow dow and a big tea fel fro him, and a blo wea sto up fro
his bac ben the gol sce. the he sat dow and was ama,
and in pai wit hel loo wip awa the tea. but the res, tho
the wer sot, lau lig at him, and thu wou one spe
loo at ano sta by: "go to, of a tru ody hat wro
goo dee wit num ere now, sta for in wis cou
and set bat in arr, but now is thi thi the bes by far tha
he hat wro amo the arg, to wit, tha he hat sta thi
pra rai fro his har. nev aga, for, wil his pro
sou hen bid him rev the kin wit sla wor."

so sai the com sor; but up ros ody was of cit, wit
sce in his han. and by his sid bri-eye ath in the lik
of a her bad the mul kee sil, tha the son of the
ach, bot the nea and the far, mig hea his wor
tog and giv hee to his cou. he of goo int mad har
to the and sai: "atr, now sur are the ach for mak
the, o kin, mos des amo all mor men, nor wil the ful
the pro tha the ple the whe the sti wer mar hit
fro hor-pas arg; tha tho sho not ret til tho
had lai wel-wal ili was. for lik you chi or wid
wom do the wai eac to the oth of ret hom. yea, her is
toi to mak a man dep dis. for he tha sta awa but one
sin mon far fro his wif in his ben shi fre him whe
win sto and the fur sea imp him; but for us, the nin
yea of our sta her is upo us in its cou. the do i not
mar tha the ach sho fre bes the bea shi; yet
nev is it sha to wai lon and to dep emp. be of goo
hea, my fri, and wai a whi, unt we lea whe kal be a
tru pro or no. for thi thi ver we kno wel in our hea,
and ye all are wit the, eve as man as the fat of dea
hav not bor awa. it was as it wer but yes or the day bef
tha the ach' shi wer gat in aul, fre wit tro
for pri and the tro; and we rou abo a spr wer off on
the hol alt unb hec to the imm, ben a fai
pla-tre whe flo bri wat, whe the was see a gre
por: a sna blo-red on the bac, ter, who the god of
oly him had sen for to the lig of day, spr fro ben
the alt and dar to the pla-tre. now the wer the the bro
of a spa, ten lit one, upo the top bra, nes
ben the lea; eig wer the and the mot of the lit one
was the nin, and the sna swa the che pit. and the
mot flu aro wai for her dea lit one; but he coi
him and cau her by the win as she scr abo him. now whe
he had swa the spa's lit one and the mot wit the, the
god who rev him mad of him a sig; for the son of
cro-cou kro tur him to sto, and we sto by and
mar to see wha was don. so whe the dre por bra in upo
the hec of the god, the did kal for pro, and
sai: 'why hol ye you pea, ye flo-hai ach? to us hat
zeu the cou sho thi gre sig, lat com, of lat
ful, the fam whe sha nev per. eve as he swa
the spa's lit one and her, the eig whe the mot
tha bar the lit one was the nin, so sha we war the so man
yea, but in the ten yea sha we tak the wid-way cit.' so
spa the see; and now are all the thi bei ful. so com,
abi ye all, ye wel-gre ach, eve whe ye are, unt we hav
tak the gre cit of pri."

so spa he, and the arg sho alo, and all rou the shi
ech ter to the voi of the ach as the pra the say
of god-lik ody. and the spa amo the kni nes of
ger: "out on it; in ver tru ye hol ass lik sil boy tha
hav no car for dee of war. wha sha com of our cov and our
oat? let all cou be cas int the fir and all dev of
war and the pur dri-off and the rig han of fel
whe we tru. for we are vai str wit wor nor can we
fin any dev at all, for all our lon tar her. son of atr,
do tho sti, as ers, kee ste pur and lea the arg ami
the vio fra; and for the, let the per, the one or two
ach tha tak sec cou--to dep to arg fir, bef the
kno whe the pro of aeg-bea zeu be a lie or no. yea, for
i say tha mos mig kro ple us his wor tha day whe the
arg emb upo the fle shi, bea unt the tro dea
and fat; for by his lig upo our rig he man sig of
goo. the let tro's wif and pai bac his str and gro
for hel's sak. but if any man is ove des to dep hom,
let him lay his han upo his dec bla shi, tha bef all men he
may enc dea and fat. but do tho, my kin, tak goo cou
thy, and wha'er it be, sha not be cas awa. sep thy
war by tri and by cla, aga, tha cla may giv aid to
cla and tri to tri. if tho do thu and the ach hea to
the, the wil tho kno who amo thy cap and who of the com
sor is a cow, and who too is bra; for the wil fig eac aft
the sor. so wil tho kno whe it is eve by div com tha
tho sha not tak the cit, or by the bas of thy war and
the ill ski in bat."

and lor aga ans and sai to him: "ver has tho aga
out the son of the ach in spe, old man. ah, fat zeu and
ath and apo, wou tha amo the ach i had ten suc
cou; the wou the cit of kin pri soo bow ben our
han, cap and was. but aeg-bea zeu, the son of kro,
hat bro sor upo me, in tha he cas my lot ami fru
wra and str. for in tru i and ach fou abo a
dam wit vio wor, and i was fir to be ang; but if we can
onl be at one in cou, the wil the no mor be any put off
the day of evi for the tro, no not for an ins. but now go ye to
you mea tha we may joi bat. let eac man sha wel his spe
and bes wel his shi, and let him wel giv his fle-foo
ste the mea, and loo wel to his cha on eve sid and tak
tho for bat, tha all day lon we may con in hat war. for
of res sha the int no, not a whi, onl tha the com of
nig sha par the fur of war. on eac man's bre sha the
bal of his cov shi be wet wit swe, and his han sha
gro fai abo the spe, and eac man's hor sha swe as he
dra the pol cha. and who i per min to tar
far fro the fig bes the bea shi, for him sha the be no
hop her to esc the dog and bir of pre."

so spa he, and the arg sho alo, lik to a wav on a ste
sho, whe the sou win com and sti it; eve on a jut
roc, tha is nev lef at pea by the wav of all win tha ris
fro thi sid and fro tha. and the did sac eac man to one of
the eve god, pra for esc fro dea and the tum of
bat. but aga kin of men sle a fat bul of fiv yea to mos
mig kro, and cal the eld, the pri of the ach hos,
nes fir and kin ido, and the the two aia and tyd'
son, and six ody pee of zeu in cou. and men of the
lou war-cry cam to him unb, for he kne in his hea how his
bro toi. the sto the aro the bul and too the
bar-mea. and aga mad his pra in the mid and sai:
"zeu, mos glo, mos gre, god of the sto-clo, tha dwe
in the hea, vou tha the sun set not upo us nor the dar
com nea, til i hav lai low upo the ear pri's pal smi
wit smo, and bur the doo the wit con fir, and ren
on hec's bre his dou cle wit the bla; and abo him may
ful man of his com pro in the dus bit the ear."

so spa he, but not as yet wou kro gra him ful; he
acc the sac, but mad toi to wax inc.

now whe the had pra and spr the bar-mea the fir dre
bac the bul's hea and cut his thr and fla him, and cut sli
fro the thi's and wra the in fat, mak a dou fol, and lai
raw col the. and the the bur on cle woo str of
lea, and spi the vit and hel the ove hep' fla. now
whe the thi wer bur and the had tas the vit, the sli
the all the res and pie it thr wit spi, and roa it
car and dre all off aga. so whe the had res fro the tas
and had mad rea the ban, the fea, nor was the hea aug
sti of the fai ban. but whe the had put awa fro the the
des of mea and dri, the did kni nes of ger ope his
say to the: "mos nob son of atr, aga kin of men, let us
not any mor hol lon con her, nor for lon del the wor tha
god put in our han; but com, let the her of the mai-cla
ach mak pro to the fol and gat the thr the
shi; and let us go thu in con thr the wid hos of the
ach, tha the spe we may aro kee war."

so spa he and aga kin of men dis not. str he
bad the cle-voi her sum to bat the flo-hai
ach. so tho sum and the gat wit all spe. and the
kin, the fos of zeu tha wer abo atr' son, eag
mar the, and bri-eye ath in the mid, bea the hol
aeg tha kno nei age nor dea, whe wav an hun
tas of pur gol, all def wov and eac one an hun oxe
wor. the she pas daz thr the ach fol, urg
the for; and in eve man's hea she rou str to bat
wit cea and to fig. so was war mad swe to the tha to
dep in the hol shi to the dea nat lan. eve as rav
fir kin a bou for on a mou's pea, and the bla is
see fro afa, eve so as the mar wen the daz gle fro the
inn bro thr the sky eve unt the hea.

and as the man tri of fea bir, wil gee or cra or
lon-nec swa, on the asi mea by kay' str, fly hit
and thi joy in the plu, and wit lou cri set eve
onw, and the mea res; eve so pou for the man tri of
war fro shi and hut int the ska pla. and the ear
ech ter ben the tre of men and hor. so sto the in
the flo ska pla, unn as are lea and flo in
the sea. eve as the man tri of thi fli tha hov abo a
her's ste in the spr sea, whe mil dre the pai,
eve in lik num sto the flo-hai ach upo the pla in
fac of the tro, eag to ren the asu. and eve as the
goa eas div the ran flo of goa whe the min in
the pas, so did the cap mar the on thi sid and tha,
to ent int the fra, and in the mid lor aga, his hea and
eye lik unt zeu who joy is in the thu, and his wai lik unt
are and his bre unt pos. eve as a bul sta out far
for ami the her, for his is pre-emi ami the pas kin,
eve suc did zeu mak atr on tha day, pre-emi amo man and
chi ami her.

tel me now, ye mus tha dwe in the man of oly--see tha
ye are god and are at han and kno all thi, but we hea onl a
rum and kno not any--who wer the cap of the dan and
the lor. but the com sor cou i not num nor nam, nay, not
if ten ton wer min and ten mou, and a voi unw, and my
hea of bro wit me, did not the mus of oly, dau of
aeg-bea zeu, put int my min all tha cam to ili. so wil i
tel the cap of the shi and all the shi in ord.

of the boi pen and lei wer cap, and ark and
pro and klo; the wer the tha dwe in hyr and roc
aul and sch and sko and ete ful of rid, the and
gra and myk wit wid law; and tha dwe abo har and
eil and ery, and the tha pos ele and pet and
hyl, oka and the sta for of med, kop and eut
and thi hau of dov; and the of kor and gra hal,
and tha pos pla and tha dwe in gli, and tha pos
the sta for of les the and hol onc, pos's
bri gro; and tha pos arn ric in vin, and mid and
sac nis and ant on the fur bor. of the the cam
fif shi, and in eac one emb you men of the boi an
hun and twe. and the tha dwe in asp and orc of
the min wer led of ask and ial, son of are, who
ast con of the mig god in the pal of akt son of
aze, hav ent her upp cha, a sta mai; for mig
are lay wit her pri. and wit the sai thi hol shi.

and the pho wer led of sch and epi, son of
gre-hea iph son of nau; the wer the tha pos
kyp and roc pyt and sac kri and dau and pan, and
the tha dwe abo ane and hya, yea, and the tha liv
by the goo riv kep and pos lil by kep' spr.
and wit the fol thi bla shi. so the mar the ran
of the pho dil, and had the sta har by the boi
on the lef.

and of the lok the fle son of oil was cap, aia the les,
tha was not so gre as was the tel aia but far les. sma was
he, wit lin cor, but wit the spe he far out all the
hel and ach. the wer the tha dwe in kyn and opu and
kal and bes and ska and lov aug and tar and
thr, abo the str of boa. and wit aia fol for
bla shi of the lok tha dwe ove aga hol eub.

and the aba bre fur, the tha pos eub and cha
and eir and his ric in vin, and ker by the sea and
the ste for of dio and the tha pos kar, and the
tha dwe in sty, all the aga wer led of ele of the sto
of are, eve the son of cha, and cap of the pro aba.
and wit him fol the fle aba wit hai flo beh,
spe eag wit ash sha out to tea the cor on
the bre of the foe. and wit him for bla shi fol.

and the tha pos the goo cit of ath, the dom of
ere the hig-hea, who ers ath dau of zeu fos
whe ear, the gra-giv, bro him to bir;--and she gav him a
res-pla in ath in her own ric san; and the the son of
the ath wor him wit bul and ram as the yea tur in the
cou--the aga wer led of men son of pet. and the was
no man upo the fac of ear tha was lik him for the mar of
hor and war tha bea the shi. onl nes riv him,
for he was the eld by bir. and wit him riv him, for he was the
eld by bir. and wit him fif bla shi fol.

and aia led twe shi fro sal, [and bro the and set the
whe the bat of the ath sto.]

and the tha pos arg and tir of the gre wal, her
and asi tha enf the dee gul, tro and eio and epi
ful of vin, and the you of the ach tha pos aig and
mas, the wer led of dio of the lou war-car and sth,
dea son of fam kap. and the thi wit the cam eur, a
god war, the son of kin mek son of tal. but dio
of the lou war-cry was lor ove all. and wit the eig bla shi
fol.

and of the tha pos the sta for of myk and wea
cor and sta kle, and dwe in orn and lov
ara and sik, whe adr was kin at the fir; and of
the tha pos hyp and ste gon and pel, and dwe
abo aig and thr all the coa-lan and abo bro hel, of
the did lor aga son of atr lea an hun shi. wit him
fol mos and goo fol by far; and in the mid him was
cla in fla bro, all glo, and was pre-emi ami all
war, bec he was goo and led fol far gre in num.

and of the tha pos lak lyi low ami the rif hil,
and pha and spa and mes, the hau of dov, and dwe in
bry and lov aug, and of the too tha pos amy and
the sea-coa for of hel, and tha pos laa and dwe abo
oit, of the was the kin's bro lea, eve men of the
lou war-cry, lea of six shi, and the wer arr apa. and
him mar amo the con in his zea, urg his men to
bat: and his hea mos of all was set to tak ven for his
str and gro for hel's sak [or, "for hel's sea of
hea and gro."].

and of the tha dwe in pyl and lov are and thr the
for-pla of alp, and in est aip, and wer inh
of kyp and amp and pte and hel and dor--whe
the mus met tha the thr, and mad an end of his sin, as
he was far fro oic, fro eur the oic; for he ave
wit boa tha he wou con, eve did the mus the sin
aga him, the dau of aeg-bea zeu; but the in the
ang mai him, mor the too fro him the hig gif of son and
mad him to for his har--of all the was kni nes of
ger lea, and wit him sai nin hol shi.

and of the tha pos ark ben the ste mou of
kyl, bes the tom of aip, whe are war tha fig han
to han; and of the tha dwe in phe and orc abo in
flo, and rhi and str and win eni, and tha pos teg
and lov man, and pos sty and dwe in par, of
the was ank' son lor aga lea, eve of six shi; and in
eac shi emb man ark war ski in fig. for
aga kin of men him gav the ben shi whe to cro
the win-dar sea, eve he the son of atr; for mat of sea
con the not.

and the too tha inh bou and goo eli, so muc the
as hyr and myr upo the bor and the ole roc and
ale bou bet the, of the men the wer fou cap, and
ten swi shi fol eac one, and man epe emb the. so
som wer led of amp and tha, of the lin of akt, son
one of kte and one of eur; and of som was sta dio
cap, son of ama; and of the fou com god pol
was cap, son of kin aga aug' son.

and the of dou and the hol ech isl tha sta bey the
sea ove aga eli, eve the did meg lea, the pee of are,
phy to wit, for he was beg of kni phy dea to zeu,
him tha ers cha his hab to dou for ang aga his
fat. and wit him fol for bla shi.

and ody led the gre-hea kep, the tha pos
ith and ner wit qui lea, and dwe in kro and
rug aig, and the tha pos zak and tha dwe in
sam, and pos the mai and dwe in the par ove aga
the isl. the did ody lea, the pee of zeu in cou, and wit
him fol twe shi wit ver pro.

and of the ait tho was cap, the son of and, eve of
the tha dwe in ple and ole and pyl, and cha on the
sea-sho and roc kal. for the son of gre-hea oin wer
no mor, nei did he sti liv, and gol-hai mel was
dea, to who han all had bee com, for him to be kin of the
ait. and wit tho the fol for bla shi.

and of the cre ido the fam spe was lea, eve of
the tha pos kno and gor of the gre wal, lyk and
mil and cha lyk and pha and rhy, sta cit
all; and of all oth tha dwe in cre of the hun cit. of
the men was ido the fam spe lea, and mer pee of
the man-sla war-god. wit the fol eig bla shi.

and tle, her' son goo and tal, led fro rho nin
shi of the lor rho, tha dwe in rho in thr
ord, in lin and ial and cha kam. the wer led of
tle the fam spe, tha was bor to gre her by
ast, who he had bro awa fro eph by the riv sel,
whe he lai was man cit of str men, fos of zeu. now
whe tle had gro to man wit the str pal wal,
ano he sle his own fat's dea unc, an old man now, lik of
the sto of are. the wit spe bui he shi and gat muc fol
tog, and wen fle acr the dee, bec the oth son and
gra of gre her thr him. so he cam to rho a
wan, end har, and his fol set by kin in thr
tri, and wer lov of zeu tha is kin amo god and men; and
kro pou upo the exc gre wea.

nir, mor, led thr tri shi fro sym, nir son of agl
and kin cha, nir the mos bea man tha cam up und
ili of all the dan, aft the nob son of pel. how he was
a wea, and a sca hos fol him.

and of the tha pos nis and kra and kas and kos the
cit of eur, and the kal isl, of the phe and
ant wer lea, the two son of kin the son of her.
wit the wer arr thi hol shi.

now all mor tha dwe in the pel arg and inh alo
and alo and tra and pos pht and hel the hom of fai
wom, and wer cal myr and hel and ach; of all
the, eve fif shi, ach was cap. but the too no tho
of noi war; for the was no man to arr the in lin of bat. for
fle-foo goo ach lay idl ami the shi, wro for the sak
of a dam, bri of the lov hai, who he had won fro lyr
and the wal of the, and ove myn and epi, war
tha bar the spe, son of kin eue sel' son. for her sak lay
ach sor; but soo was he to ari aga.

and of the tha pos phy and flo pyr, dem's
san, and ito mot of flo, and ant by the sea-sho and
pte cou in gra, of all the was war pro lea
whi yet he liv; but now ere thi the bla ear hel him fas. his
wif wit mar vis was lef alo in phy, yea, and his bri
cha hal bui; for a dar war sle him as he lea fro
his shi far fir of the ach. yet nei wer his men lea,
tho the sor for the lea; for pod of the sto of are
mar the, son of phy' son iph was he, the lor of man
flo, own bro of gre-hea pro, and you-bor tha
he: but the oth was ali the eld and the bra, eve pro,
tha mig man of war. yet did not the hos lac at all a lea, onl
the yea for the nob dea. wit him fol for bla shi.

and of the tha dwe in phe by the boi mer, in boi and
gla and sta iol, of the, eve ele shi, adm'
dea son was lea, eum who alk, fai amo wom, bar to
adm, she tha was mos bea to loo upo of the dau of
pel.

and of the tha dwe in met and tha, and pos mel
and rug oli, of the, eve sev shi, was phi lea,
the cun arc; and in eac shi sai fif oar ski to
fig ama wit the bow. but the cap lay end sor pai in
the isl of goo lem, whe the son of the ach lef him sic
of a gri wou fro a dea wat-sna. the lay he pin; yet
wer the arg soo to bet the bes the shi of kin
phi. yet nei wer his men lea, onl the sor for
the lea; but med mar the, oil' bas son, who rhe
bar to oil was of cit.

and of the tha pos tri and ter ith and tha pos
oic cit of eur the oic, of the aga ask' two
son wer lea, the cun lee pod and mac. and wit
the wer arr thi hol shi.

and of the tha pos orm and the fou of hyp, and
pos ast and the whi cre of tit, of the was
eur lea, eua's glo son; and wit him, for bla
shi fol.

and of the tha pos arg and dwe in gyr, ort and
elo and the whi cit of olo, of the was cap unf
pol, son of pei tha imm zeu beg: and pol
did fam hip con of pei on tha day whe he too
ven of the sha wil fol, and thr the for fro pel and
dra the to the ait. and pol rul not alo, but wit him
was leo of the sto of are, son of hig-hea kor kai'
son. and wit the for bla shi fol.

and gou fro kyp led two-and-twe shi, and wit him fol
the eni and unf per tha had pit the hom
abo win dod, and dwe on the til abo lov tit tha
pou his fai-flo str int pen. yet dot he not min
wit the sil edd of pen, but flo on ove him lik unt
oil, see tha he is an off fro the wat of sty, the dre
riv of the oat.

and the mag wer led of pro son of ten, eve the tha
dwe abo pen and pel wit tre lea. the did fle
pro lea, and wit him for bla shi fol.

so the wer the lea of the dan and the cap. now tel
me, o mus, who amo the was fir and for, of war ali and
hor tha fol the son of atr. of hor the of phe' son
wer far goo, tho tha eum dra, swi as bir, lik of
coa, lik of age, mat to the mea of a lev lin acr
the bac. the wer rea in per by apo of the sil bow,
two mar car onw the ter of bat. but of war far bes
was the tel aia, whi the wra of ach yet end; for he
was gre of all, he and his hor tha bor him, eve pel' nob
son. but he lay idl amo his sea shi, in sor wra aga
aga atr' son, she of the hos; and his fol alo the
sea-sho spo wit quo and wit cas of jav and arc;
and the hor eac bes his own cha sto idl, cha clo
and par of the mar, and the lor' cha lay wel cov up
wit the hut, whi the men yea for the war chi, and
wan hit and thi thr the cam and fou not.

so mar the the as tho all the lan wer con wit fir;
and the ear gro ben the as at the wra of zeu who joy is
in the thu, whe he las the ear abo typ in the cou
of the ari, whe men say is typ' cou. eve so gro the
ear alo at the tre as the wen: and wit spe adv the
acr the pla.

now fle iri the win-foo wen to the tro, a mes fro
aeg-bea zeu, wit a gri mes. the wer hol ass
at pri's gat, bei gat all tog bot you men and old. and
fle-foo iri sto har by and spa to the; and she mad her
voi lik to the voi of pol son of pri, who was the sen of
the tro and was won to sit tru in his fle upo the
bar of ais of old, and on the top the wai the sal of
the ach for fro the shi. eve in his lik did
fle-foo iri spe to pri: "old man, wor bey num are
sti ple to the as ers in the day of pea; but war wit
res is upo us. of a tru hav i ver oft ere now ent int
bat of the war, yet hav i nev see so goo a hos and so
gre; for in the ver lik of the lea of the for or the san
of the sea are the mar alo the pla to fig aga the cit.
but hec, the do i cha bey all to do eve as i sha say.
see tha the all are ver man thr pri's gre cit, and
div men, bei sca abr, hav div ton; the let
eac one giv the wor to tho who chi he is, and the let him
lea for and hav the ord of his cou."

so spa she, and hec fai not to kno the voi of the god,
and str dis the ass, and the rus to arm. and the
gat wer thr ope wid, and the hos iss for, foo and
hor, and mig din aro.

now the is bef the cit a cer ste mou apa in the pla,
wit a cle way abo it on thi sid and on tha; and men ind cal
thi "bat," but the imm cal it "the tom of lit myr."
the did the tro and the all div the com.

ami the tro gre hec of the gla hel was lea, the son
of pri; wit him the gre hos by far and the goo wer
arr, eag war of the spe.

but the dar wer led of the pri son of anc, ain,
who bri aph con to anc ami the spu of ida, a
god wed to a mor. nei was he alo; wit him wer
ant's two son, arc and aka, wel ski in all the way
of war.

and of the tha dwe in zel ben the net foo of ida, the
men of sub tha dri the dar wat of ais, eve the tro;
of the lyk's glo son was lea, pan, to who apo
him gav the bow.

and of the tha pos adr and the lan of apa and
pos pit and the ste hil of ter, of the adr was
cap, and amp of the lin cor, the two son of mer of
per, tha bey all men kne soo, and wou hav hin
his chi mar to mur war. but the gav him no hee, for
the fat of bla dea led the on.

and the tha dwe abo per and pra and pos ses and
aby and bri ari, the wer led of hyr' son asi, a
pri of men, asi son of hyr, who his tal sor ste
bro fro ari, fro the riv sel.

and hip led the tri of the pel tha fig wit spe,
the tha inh dee-soi lar. the wer led of hip and
pyl of the sto of are, twa son of pel let son of
teu.

and the thr wer led of aka and her pei, eve all the
tha the str str of hel shu in. and eup was
cap of the kik spe, the son of tro keo' son,
fos of zeu.

but pyr led the pai wit cur bow, fro far awa in
amy, fro the bro str of axi, axi who wat is the fai
tha flo ove the fac of the ear.

and pyl of rug hea led the pap fro the lan of
the ene, whe is the bre of wil mul. thi fol wer the tha
pos kyt and dwe abo ses, and inh the fam
dwe rou the riv par and kro and aig and lof
ery.

and the ali wer led of odi and epi, fro far awa in
aly, whe is the bir of sil.

and the mys wer led of chr and enn the aug, yet wit all
his aug war he not bla fat fro him, but was van by the
han of fle-foo aia in the riv, whe he mad hav of the
tro the and of the res.

and pho and god ask led the phr fro far ask, and
the wer eag to fig in the bat-thr.

and the mai wer com of mes and ant, tal'
two son, who mot was the gyg mer. so the led the mai,
who bir was und tmo.

but nas led the kar, unc of spe, tha pos mil
and the mou of pht, of lea num, and the str of
mai and the ste cre of myk. the wer led of amp
and nas: nas and amp the glo chi of nom. and
he cam, for, to bat wit gol att lik a gir--fon man:
tha hel not bac in any wis gri des, but he was
van by the han of fle-foo aia in the riv, and
wis-hea ach car awa his gol.

and sar and bla gla led the lyk fro far awa in
lyk by edd xan.



boo iii.

    how men and par fou in sin com; and
    aph res par. and how hel and pri beh the
    ach hos fro the wal of tro.

now whe the wer arr, eac com wit the cap, the
tro mar wit cla and wit sho lik unt bir, eve as
whe the goe up bef hea a cla of cra whi fle fro
the com of win and sud rai, and fly wit cla tow the
str of oce, bea sla and fat to the pig men, and in
ear mor off cru bat. but on the oth sid mar the
ach in sil bre cou, eag at hea to giv suc
man to man.

eve as whe the sou win she mis ove the cre of a mou,
mis unw to the she, but to the rob bet tha nig,
and a man can see no fur tha he cas a sto; eve so thi
aro the gat dus-clo at the tre as the wen; and
wit all spe the adv acr the pla.

so whe the wer now com nig in ons on eac oth, god
ale pla cha to the tro, wea upo his sho
pan-ski and cur bow and swo; and he bra two
bro-hea spe and cha all the chi of the arg to
fig him man to man in dea com. but whe men dea to are
mar him com in the for of the mul wit lon str,
the eve as a lio is gla whe he lig upo a gre car, a
hor sta, or a wil goa tha he hat fou, bei an hun; and
so he dev it ama, eve tho the fle hou and lus you
set upo him; eve thu was men gla whe his eye beh god
ale; for he tho to tak ven upo the sin. so
str he lea in his arm fro his cha to the gro.

but whe god ale mar him app ami the cha, his
hea was smi, and he shr bac int the hos of his com,
avo dea. and eve as a man tha hat see a ser in a mou
gla sta bac and tre sei his fee ben him,
and he ret bac aga, and pal hat hol of his che, eve
so did god ale for fea of atr' son shr bac int the
thr of lor tro. but hec beh and upb him wit
sco wor: "ill par, mos fai in sem, tho dec
wom-mad, wou tho had bee unb and die unw. yea, tha wer
my des, and it wer far bet tha thu to be our sha and loo
at ask of all men. i wee tha the flo-hai ach lau,
dee tha a pri is our cha onl bec a goo fav is
his; but in his hea is the no str nor any cou. art tho
ind suc an one tha in thy sea shi tho did sai ove the
dee wit the com of thy tru com, and in con wit
str did bri bac a fai wom fro a far cou, one tha was
by mar dau to war tha bea the spe, tha she mig be
a sor mis to the fat and cit and all the rea, but to our
foe a rej, and to thy a han of the hea? and can tho
not ind abi men dea to are? tho mig see wha sor of
war is he who lov wif tho has. thy lyr wil not ava the
nor the gif of aph, tho thy loc and fai fav, whe tho
gro in the dus. but the tro are ver cow: els ere thi
had tho don a rob of sto [i.e., bee sto by the peo] for
all the ill tho has wro."

and god ale mad ans to him aga: "hec, sin in
mea tho chi me and not bey mea--the hea is eve kee,
eve as an axe tha pie a bea at the han of a man tha sha a
shi's tim wit ski, and the is the man's blo str;
eve suc is thy hea und in thy bre. cas not in my tee the
lov gif of gol aph; not to be flu asi are the god'
glo gif tha of the own goo wil the giv; for by his des
can no man win the. but now if tho wil hav me do bat and fig,
mak the oth tro sit dow and all the ach, and set ye me in
the mid, and men dea to are, to fig for hel and all her
wea. and whi sha van and gai the upp han, let him
tak all the wea ari, and the wom, and bea the hom. and let
the res ple fri and sur oat; so may ye dwe in
dee-soi tro, and let the dep to arg pas-lan of hor,
and ach hom of fai wom."

so spa he, and hec rej gre to hea his say, and wen
int the mid and res the bat of the tro, wit his
spe gra by the mid; and the all sat the dow. but the
flo-hai ach kep sho at him, aim wit arr and
cas sto. but aga kin of men cri alo: "ref, ye
arg; sho not, ye son of the ach; for hec of the gla
hel hat set him to say som."

so spa he, and the ref fro bat and mad sil spe.
and hec spa bet the two hos, "hea of me, tro and
wel-gre ach, the say of ale, for who sak str
hat com abo. he bid the oth tro and all the ach to
lay dow the goo arm on the bou ear, and him in the
mid and men dea to are to fig alo for hel and all her
wea. and whi sha van and gai the upp han, let him
tak all the wea ari, and the wom, and bea the hom; but let
all of us ple fri and sur oat."

so spa he, and the all kep sil and wer sti. the in the
mid spa men of the lou war-cry: "hea ye now to me, too;
for int my hea mos of all is gri ent; and i dee tha the
par of arg and tro hat com at las; see ye hav end
man ill bec of my qua and the fir sin of ale. and for
whi of us dea and fat are pre, let him lie dea: and be
ye all par wit spe. bri ye two lam, one whi ram and one
bla ewe, for ear and sun; and let us bri one for zeu. and cal
hit gre pri, tha he may ple the oat him, see he hat
son tha are ove and fai, les any by tra do
vio to the oat of zeu; for you men's hea are eve lif up.
but whe an old man ent in, he loo bot bef and
aft, whe the bes iss sha com for eit sid."

so spa he, and ach and tro wer gla, dee tha the
sho hav res fro gri war. so the ref the cha to
the ran, and the ali and dof the arm. and the the
lai upo the ear eac clo to eac, and the was but sma spa
bet. and hec sen two her to the cit wil all spe, to
bri the lam, and to cal pri. and lor aga sen for
tal to go to the hol shi, and bad him bri a ram; and he
was not dis to nob aga.

now iri wen wit a mes to whi-arm hel in the lik of her
hus's sis, the spo of ant's son, eve her tha lor
hel ant's son had to wif, lao fai fav of pri's
dau. and in the hal she fou hel wea a gre pur web of
dou fol, and emb the man bat of hor-tam
tro and mai-cla ach, tha the had end for her sak at
the han of are. so fle-foo iri sto by her sid and sai:
"com hit, dea sis, tha tho may see the won doi of
hor-tam tro and mai-cla ach. the tha ers wag
tea war upo eac oth in the pla, eag for dea bat, eve
the sit now in sil, and the tal spe are pla by the sid.
but ale and men dea to are wil fig wit the tal
spe for the; and tho wil be dec the dea wif of him tha
con."

so spa the god, and put int her hea swe lon for her
for hus and her cit and par.

for she vei her fac in shi lin, and has fro her
cha, let fal a rou tea; not una, for the fol
wit her two han, ait dau of pit and ox-eye
kly. the cam she str to the pla of the ska gat. and
the tha wer wit pri and pan and thy and lam and
kly and hik of the sto of are, ouk wit and ant,
twa sag, bei eld of the peo, sat at the ska gat. the
had now cea fro bat for old age, yet wer the rig goo
ora, lik gra tha in a for sit upo a tre and utt
the lil-lik [sup to mea "del" or "ten"] voi; eve so
sat the eld of the tro upo the tow. now whe the saw hel
com to the tow the sof spa win wor one to the oth:
"sma bla is it tha tro and wel-gre ach sho for
suc a wom lon tim suf har; mar lik is she to the
imm god to loo upo. yet eve so, tho she be so goo,
let her go upo the shi and not sta to vex us and our chi
aft us."

so sai the, and pri lif up his voi and cal to hel: "com
hit, dea chi, and sit bef me, tha tho may see thy for
hus and the kin and thy fri. i hol the not to bla;
nay, i hol the god to bla who bro on me the dol war of the
ach--so may tho now tel me who is thi hug her, thi ach
war so goo and gre. of a tru the are oth eve tal by
a hea; yet min eye nev beh a man so bea nor so roy; for
he is lik unt one tha is a kin."

and hel, fai amo wom, spa and ans him: "rev art tho
to me and dre, dea fat of my lor; wou tha sor dea had bee
my ple whe i fol thy son hit, and lef my hom and my
kin and my dau in her gir and the lov com of min
age-fel. but tha was not so, whe i pin wit wee. now
wil i tel the tha whe tho ask me and enq. thi is
atr, wid-rul aga, one tha is bot a goo kin and
mig spe. and he was my hus's bro to me, ah sha me;
if eve suc an one the was."

so sai she, and the old man mar at him, and sai: "ah, hap
atr, chi of for, ble of hea; now kno i tha man son
of the ach are sub to the. ere far i to phr, the
lan of vin, and the saw i tha the men of phr, the of the
nim ste, wer ver man, eve the hos of otr and god
myg, tha wer the enc alo the ban of san. for i too
bei the all was num amo the on the day tha the ama
cam, the pee of men. yet wer not eve the so man as are the
gla-eye ach."

and nex the old man saw ody, and ask: "com now, tel me of thi
man too, dea chi, who is he, sho by a hea tha aga son of
atr, but bro of sho and of che to beh? his arm lie
upo the bou ear, and him lik a bel-wet ran the
ran of war. yea, i lik him to a thi-fle ram ord a
gre flo of ewe."

the hel spr of zeu mad ans to him: "now thi is lae' son,
cra ody, tha was rea in the rea of ith, rug tho
it be, and ski in all the way of wil and cun dev."

the sag ant mad ans to her: "lad, ver the thi tho
say is tru ind, for ers cam goo ody hit als on an
emb for the, in the com of men dea to are; and i gav
the ent and wel the in my hal, and lea the asp
of bot and the wis dev. now whe the min wit the tro
in the ass, whi all sto up men ove the all by the
mea of his bro sho; but whe bot sat dow, ody was the
mor sta. and whe the beg to wea the web of wor and cou
in the fac of all, the men har flu, in few wor, but
ver cle, see he was not lon of spe, nei ran, tho
in yea he was the you. but whe ody ful of wil ros
up, he sto and loo dow, wit eye fix upo the gro, and wav
not his sta whe bac or for, but hel it sti, lik to
a man of no und; one wou dee him to be chu, and nau
but a foo. but whe he utt his gre voi fro his che, and
wor lik unt the sno of win, the cou no mor man
con wit ody; the mar we not thu to beh ody'
asp."

and thi the old man say aia, and ask: "who the is thi oth
ach war, goo and gre, pre amo the arc by the
mea of his hea and bro sho?"

and lon-rob hel, fai amo wom, ans: "thi is hug aia,
bul of the ach. and on the oth sid ami the cre sta
ido lik a god, and abo him are gat the cap of the
cre. oft did men dea to are ent him in our hou
whe'er he cam fro cre. and now beh i all the oth
gla-eye ach, who wel i cou dis and tel the nam;
but two cap of the hos can i not see, eve kas tam of hor
and pol the ski box, min own bre, who the sam mot
bar. eit the cam not in the com fro lov lak; or
the cam hit ind in the sea shi, but now wil not ent
int the bat of the war, for fea of the man sco and
rev tha are min."

so sai she; but the the lif-giv ear hel fas the in
lak, in the dea nat lan.

mea wer the her bea thr the cit the hol
oat-off, two lam and str-hea win, the fru of the
ear, in a goa-ski bot. and the her ida bar the shi
bow and gol cup; and cam to the old man and sum him and sai:
"ris, tho son of lao. the chi of the hor-tam tro
and mai-cla ach cal on the to go dow int the pla, tha ye
may ple a tru oat. but ale and men dea to are wil
fig wit the lon spe for the lad's sak; and let lad and
tre go wit him tha sha con. and may we tha are lef ple
fri and tru oat and dwe in dee-soi tro, and the
sha dep to arg pas-lan of hor and ach hom of fai
wom."

so sai he, and the old man shu and bas his com yok the
hor; and the wit spe obe. the pri mou and dre bac the
rei, and by his sid ant mou the spl cha. so the two
dra the fle hor thr the ska gat to the pla. and whe
the had com eve to the tro and ach, the wen dow fro the
cha upo the bou ear, and mar int the mid of tro
and ach. the for ros up aga kin of men, and up ros
ody the man of wil; and the lor her gat tog the
hol oat-off of the god, and min the win in a bow, and
pou wat ove the pri' han. and atr put for his han
and dre his kni tha hun eve bes his swo's gre she, and
cut the hai fro off the lam' hea; and the the her por
it amo the chi of the tro and ach. the in the mid
atr' son lif up his han and pra alo: "fat zeu, tha
rul fro ida, mos glo, mos gre, and tho sun tha see all
thi and hea all thi, and ye riv and tho ear, and ye tha
in the und pun men out, who swe fal; be ye
wit, and wat ove the fai oat. if ale sla
men, the let him hav hel to him and all her pos;
and we wil dep on our sea shi. but if gol-hai men
sla ale, the let the tro giv bac hel and all her
pos and pay the arg the rec tha is see, suc as
sha liv amo men tha sha be her. but if so be tha pri
and pri's son wil not pay the rec unt me whe ale
fal, the wil i fig on the for the pri of sin, and abi
her til i com the end of war."

so sai he, and cut the lam' thr wit the pit kni. the he
lai gas upo the gro, fai of bre, for the kni had tak
the str fro the; and nex the dre the win fro the bow int
the cup, and pou it for and pra to the god tha liv for eve.
and thu wou say man an one of ach and tro: "zeu mos
glo, mos gre, and all ye imm god, whi fol soe'er be
fir to sin aga the oat, may the bra be so pou for upo
the ear eve as thi win, the and the chi's; and let the
wiv be mad sub unt str."

so spa the, but the son of kro vou not yet ful. and
in the mid pri of the see of dar utt his say:
"hea to me, tro and wel-gre ach. i ver wil ret
bac to win ili, see tha i can in no wis bea to beh wit
min eye my dea son fig wit men dea to are. but zeu
kno, and all the imm god, for whe of the twa the doo of
dea is app."

so spa the god man, and lai the lam in his cha, and ent
in him, and dre bac the rei; and by his sid ant mou the
spl cha. so the dep bac aga to ili; and hec son
of pri and goo ody fir met out a spa, and the the too
the lot, and sho the in a bro-bou hel, to kno whe of
the twa sho fir cas his spe of bro. and the peo pra
and lif up the han to the god; and thu wou say man an one of
ach and tro: "fat zeu, tha rul fro ida, mos glo,
mos gre; whi'er it be tha bro thi tro upo bot
peo, vou tha he may die and ent the hou of had; tha so
for us pea may be ass and tru oat."

so sai the; and gre hec of the gla plu sho the hel,
loo beh him; and qui lea for the lot of par. the the
peo sat the dow by ran whe eac man's hig-ste hor and
inw arm lay. and upo his sho goo ale don
his bea arm, eve he tha was lor to hel of the lov hai.
fir upo his leg set he his gre, bea, fas wit sil
ank-cla; nex upo his bre he don the cor of his bro
lyk, and fit it upo him. and ove his sho cas he his
sil-stu swo of bro, and the a shi gre and stu. and
on his mig hea he set a wro hel of hor-hai cre,
whe the plu nod ter, and he too him a str spe
fit to his gra. and in lik wis war men don his
arm.

so whe the had arm the on eit sid in the thr, the
str bet tro and ach, fie of asp, and won cam
on the tha beh, bot on the tro tam of hor and on the
wel-gre ach. the too the the sta nea tog in the
mea spa, bra the spe in wra eac aga oth.
fir ale hur his far sha spe, and smo on atr'
rou shi; but the bro bra not thr, for its poi was tur
in the sto shi. nex men son of atr lif up his han to
cas, and mad pra to fat zeu: "kin zeu, gra me rev on
him tha was fir to do me wro, eve on goo ale, and sub
tho him at my han; so tha man an one of men tha sha be her
may shu to wro his hos tha hat sho him kin."

so sai he, and poi his far-sha spe, and hur, and smo on
the rou shi of the son of pri. thr the bri shi wen the
pon spe and thr the inw bre it pre on; and
str bes his fla the spe ren the tun, but he swe and
esc bla dea. the atr dre his sil-stu swo, and
lif up his han and smo the hel-rid; but the swo sha
upo it int thr, yea fou, and fel fro his han. the atr
loo up to the wid hea and cri: "fat zeu, sur non of the
god is cru tha tho. ver i tho to hav got ven on
ale for his wic, but now my swo bre in my han, and
my spe spe fro my gra in vai, and i hav not smi him."

so say, he lea upo him and cau him by his hor-hai cre, and
swi him rou dra him tow the wel-gre ach; and he
was str by the emb str ben his sof thr, dra
tig bel his chi to hol his hel. now wou men hav dra
him awa and won glo uns, but tha zeu' dau aph
was swi to mar, and tor asu for him the str of sla
ox's hid; so the hel cam awa emp in his sta han. the
men cas it wit a swi tow the wel-gre ach, and his
tru com too it up; and him spr bac aga eag to sla
him wit spe of bro. but aph sna up par, ver eas
as a god may, and hid him in thi dar, and sen him dow in
his fra per cha; and her wen to sum hel. her she
fou on the hig tow, and abo her the tro wom thr. so
wit her han she plu her per rai and sho it and spa to
her in the lik of an age dam, a woo-com tha was won to wor
for her fai woo whe she dwe in lak, who too she gre
lov. eve in her lik fai aph spa: "com hit;
ale sum the to go hom. the is he in his cha and
inl bed, rad in bea and ves; nor wou tho dee him to
be com fro fig his foe, but rat to be far to the dan, or
fro the dan to be jus res and set dow."

so sai she, and sti hel's sou wit her bre; and whe now
she mar the fai nec and lov bre and spa eye of the
god, she mar str and spa a wor and cal upo her
nam: "str que, why art tho des now to beg me? ver
tho wil lea me fur on to som one of the peo cit of phr
or lov mai, if the too tho has per som oth dar
amo mor men, bec eve now men hat con goo
ale, and wil lea me, acc me, to his hom. the tho
com hit wit gui int. go and sit tho by his sid and
dep fro the way of the god; nei let thy fee eve bea the
bac to oly, but sti be vex for his sak and gua him til he
mak the his wif or per his sla. but thi wil i not go--
tha wer a sin thi--to arr the bed of him; all the wom of tro
wil bla me the; and i hav gri unt wit my sou."

the in wra bri aph spa to her: "pro me not, ras
wom, les in min ang i des the, and hat the eve as now i
lov the bey mea, and les i dev gri enm bet
bot, eve bet tro and ach, and so tho per in evi
wis."

so sai she, and hel spr of zeu was afr, and wen wra in
her bri rad ves, sil, and the tro wom mar her
not; and the god led the way.

now whe the wer com to the bea hou of ale the
han tur str to the tas, and the fai lad wen to
the hig-roo cha; and lau-lov aph too for her a
cha and bro it, eve she the god, and set it bef the fac
of par. the hel too her sea, the chi of aeg-bea zeu,
and wit eye tur ask spa and cho her lor: "tho com bac
fro bat; wou tho had per the, van of tha gre
war tha was my for hus. ver it was onc thy boa tha
tho was a bet man tha men dea to are, in the mig of thi
arm and thy spe. but go now, cha men, dea to are to fig
the aga fac to fac. nay, but i, eve i, bid the ref, nor fig
a fig wit gol-hai men man to man, nei att him
rec, les per tho fal to his spe ano."

and par mad ans to her and sai: "chi not my sou, lad, wit
cru tau. for now ind hat men van me wit ath's
aid, but ano day may i do so unt him; for we too hav god wit us.
but com now, let us hav joy of lov upo our cou; for nev yet hat
lov so enw my hea--not eve the whe fir i sna the
fro lov lak and sai wit the on my sea-far shi, and
in the isl of kra had con wit the upo thy cou in lov--as
i lov the now and swe des tak hol upo me." so say he led
the way to the cou, and the lad fol wit him.

thu lai the the upo the fre cou; but atr the whi
str thr the hos lik to a wil bea, if any he mig set
eye on god ale. but non of the tro or the fam
all cou dis ale to men dea to are. yet sur
did the in no wis hid him for kin, cou any hav see him;
for he was hat of all eve as bla dea. so aga kin of men
spa amo the the: "hea to me, tro and dar and
all. now is vic dec for men dea to are; giv ye bac
hel of arg and the pos wit her, and pay ye the rec
suc as is see, tha it may liv eve amo men tha sha be
her." so sai atr, and all the ach gav ass.



boo iv.

    how pan wou men by tre; and aga
    exh his chi cap to bat.

now the god sat by zeu and hel ass on the gol flo, and in
the mid the lad heb pou the the nec: the wit gol
gob ple one ano, and gaz upo the cit of the tro.
the did kro' son ess to pro her wit vex wor, and spa
mal: "twa god hat men for his hel, eve her
of arg and ala ath. yet the sit apa and tak the
ple in beh; but bes tha oth eve sta
lau-lov aph and war off fat fro him, and now hat
she sav him as he tho to per. but of a tru the vic is to
men dea to are; so let us tak tho how the thi sha be;
whe onc mor we sha aro ill war and the dre bat-din, or
put fri bet the foe. mor if thi wer wel to all
and wel ple, may the cit of kin pri yet be an hab, and
men tak bac hel of arg."

so sai he, but ath and her mur the, who wer sit by
him and dev ill for the tro. now ath hel her pea and
sai not any, for wra at fat zeu, and fie ang gat hol
upo her: but her's bre con not her ang, and she spa:
"mos dre son of kro, wha wor is thi tho has spo? how has
tho the wil to mak my lab voi and of non eff, and the swe
of my toi tha i swe, whe my hor wer wea wit my sum
of the hos, to be the pla of pri and his son? do as tho wil;
but we oth god do not all app the."

the in sor ang zeu the clo-gat spa to her: "goo lac, how
hav pri and pri's son don the suc gre wro tha tho art
fur min to sac the est cit of ili? per
wer tho to ent wit the gat and lon wal and dev pri raw,
and pri's son and all the tro, the mig tho ass thi
ang. do as tho art min, onl let not thi qua her be to
me and the a sor str bet us bot. and thi mor wil i say
to the, and do tho lay it to the hea; whe'er i too be of eag
min to lay was to a cit whe is the rac of men tha are dea to
the, hin tho not my wra, but let me be, eve as i yie to the
of fre wil, yet wit sou unw. for all cit ben sun and
sta hea tha are the dwe of mor men, hol ili was mos
hon of my hea, and pri and the fol of pri of the goo ash
spe. for nev did min alt lac the see fea, eve
dri-off and bur-off, the wor tha is our due."

the hel the ox-eye que mad ans to him: "of a sur thr
cit are the tha are dea far to me, arg and spa and
wid-way myk; the lay tho was whe'er the are fou hat
to thy hea; not for the wil i sta for, nor do i gru the
the. for eve if i be jea and wou for the to ove the,
yet wil my jea not ava, see tha tho art str far tha
i. sti mus my lab too not be mad of non eff; for i als am a
god, and my lin is eve as thi, and kro the cro cou
beg me to the pla of hon in dou wis, by bir, and
bec i am nam thy spo, and tho art kin amo all the
imm. let us ind yie eac to oth her, i to the and tho
to me, and the res of the imm god wil fol wit us; and do
tho wit spe cha ath to bet her to the fie bat din of
tro and ach, and to ess tha the tro may fir tak upo
the to do vio to the ach in the tri, des the
oat."

so sai she, and the fat of men and god dis not; for
he spa to ath win wor: "bet the wit all spe to the
hos, to the mid of tro and ach, and ess tha the tro
may fir tak upo the to do vio to the ach in the
tri, des the oat."

so spa he, and rou ath tha alr was set the; and fro
oly' hei she dar dow. eve as the son of kro the cro
cou sen a sta, a por for mar or a wid hos of
men, bri shi, and the are sca spa in mul;
eve in suc gui spe pal ath to ear, and lea int the
mid; and ast cam on the tha beh, on hor-tam
tro and wel-gre ach. and thu wou man an one say,
loo at his nei: "of a sur eit sha sor war and the
fie bat din ret aga; or els zeu dot sta pea bet
the foe, eve he tha is men's dis of bat."

thu wou man an one of ach and tro say. the the god
ent the thr of tro in the lik of a man, eve ant's
son lao, a sta war, and sou for god pan, if
hap she mig fin him. lyk's son fou she, the nob and
sta, sta, and abo him the sta ran of the
shi-bea hos tha fol him fro the str of ais. so
she cam nea and spa win wor: "wil tho now hea to me, tho
wis son of lyk? the wou tho tak hea to sho a swi arr
at men, and wou win fav and glo bef all the tro,
and bef kin ale mos of all. sur fro him fir of any
wou tho rec glo gif, if per he see men,
atr' war son, van by thy dar and bro to the gri
pyr. go to now, sho at glo men, and vow to apo, the son
of lig [or, per, "the wol-bor"], the lor of arc, to
sac a goo hec of fir lam whe tho art ret to
thy hom, in the cit of hol zel."

so spa ath, and per his foo's hea. for he uns
his pol bow of hor of a wil ibe tha he him had ers smi
ben the bre as it cam for fro a roc, the whi he awa in
a lur-pla; and had pie it in the che, so tha it fel
bac on the roc. now fro its hea spr the hor of six
pal; the the art, eve the wor in hor, joi cun
tog, and pol the all wel and set the top of gol the. so
he lai it dow whe he had wel str it, by res it upo the
gro; and his sta com hel the shi bef him, les the
war son of the ach sho fir set on the, ere men,
atr' son, wer smi. the ope he the lid of his qui and too
for a fea arr, nev yet sho, a sou of gri pan; and
ano he lai the bit dar upo the str and vow to apo, the
son of lig, the lor of arc, to sac a goo hec of
fir lam whe he sho hav ret to his hom in the cit of
hol zel. the he too the not and str of oxe' sin tog,
and dre, bri to his bre the str, and to the bow the iro
hea. so whe he had now ben the gre bow int a rou, the hor
twa, and the str san alo, and the kee arr lea eag to
win his way ami the thr.

but the ble god imm for not the, men; and bef all
the dau of zeu, the dri of the spo, who sto bef the and
war off the pie dar. she tur it jus asi fro the fle,
eve as a mot dri a fly fro her chi tha lie in swe
slu; and wit her own han gui it whe the gol buc of the
bel wer cla and the dou bre met the. so the bit
arr lig upo the fir bel; thr the inw bel it spe and
thr the cur wro bre it pre on and thr the
tas [and apr or bel set wit met, wor bel the cor] he
wor to shi his fle, a bar aga dar; and thi bes
shi him, yet it pas on eve thr thi. the did the arr
gra the war's out fle, and for the dus blo
flo fro the wou.

as whe som wom of mai or kar sta ivo wit pur, to
mak a che-pie for hor, and it is lai up in the tre
cha, and man a hor pra for it to wea; but it is lai up
to be a kin's boa, ali an ado for his hor and a glo for
his cha; eve in suc wis, men, wer thy sha thi
sta wit blo and thy leg and thy fai ank ben.

the shu aga kin of men whe he saw the bla blo
flo fro the wou. and men dea to are lik shu;
but whe he saw how thr [by whi the iro hea was att to the
sha] and bar wer wit, his spi was gat in his bre
aga. the lor aga moa dee, and spa amo the, hol
men by the han; and his com mad moa the whi: "dea
bro, to thy dea, mes, ple i the oat, set the
for to fig the tro alo bef the fac of the ach; see
tha the tro hav so smi the, and tro und flo the tru
oat. yet in no wis is an oat of non eff, and the blo of lam
and pur dri-off and the rig han of fel whe we
tru. for eve if the oly bri not abo the ful
for, yet dot he ful at las, and men mak dea ame, eve
wit the own hea and the wiv and lit one. yea of a sur i
kno thi in hea and sou; the day sha com for hol ili to be
lai low, and pri and the fol of pri of the goo ash spe; and
zeu the son of kro ent on hig, tha dwe in the hea,
him sha bra ove the all his low aeg, in ind
at thi dec. the sha all thi not be voi; yet sha i hav sor
sor for the, men, if tho die and ful the lot of lif. yea
in utt sha sho i ret to thi arg, see tha the
ach wil for bet the of the nat lan, and so sho
we lea to pri and the tro the boa, eve hel of arg. and
the ear sha rot thy bon as tho lie in tro wit thy tas
unf: and thu sha man an ove tro say as he lea
upo the tom of glo men: 'wou to god aga mig so
ful his wra in eve mat, eve as now he led hit the hos of
the ach for nau, and hat gon hom aga to his dea nat
lan wit emp shi, and hat lef nob men beh.' thu sha
men say her: in tha day let the wid ear gap for me."

but gol-hai men enc him and sai: "be of goo cou,
nei dis at all the hos of the ach. the kee dar lig
not upo a dea spo; my gli bel in fro sta it, and the
kir of mai ben, and the tas tha the cop fas."

the lor aga ans him and sai: "wou it may be so, dea
men. but the lee sha fee the wou, and lay the dru tha
sha ass thy dir pan."

so say he spa to god tal, his her: "tal, wit
all spe cal mac hit, the her son of ask the nob
lee, to see men, atr' war son, who one wel ski in
arc, som tro or lyk, hat wou wit a bow-sho, to his
glo and our gri."

so sai he, and the her hea him and dis not, and wen his
way thr the hos of mai-cla ach to spy out the her mac.
him he fou sta, and abo him the sta ran of the
shi-bea hos tha fol him fro tri, pas lan of
hor. so he cam nea and spa his win wor: "ari, tho son of
ask. lor aga cal the to see men, cap of the
ach, who one wel ski in arc, som tro or lyk, hat
wou wit a bow-sho, to his glo and our gri."

so say he aro his spi in his bre, and the wen the way
ami the thr, thr the wid hos of the ach. and whe the
wer now com whe was gol-hai men wou, and all as man
as wer chi gat aro him in a cir, the god her
cam and sto in the mid, and ano dre for the arr fro the
cla bel; and as it was dra for the kee bar wer bro
bac. the he loo the gli bel and kir of mai ben
and tas tha the cop fas; and whe he saw the wou
whe the bit arr had lig, he suc out the blo and
cun spr the soo dru, suc as che of his goo
wil had imp to his sir.

whi the wer ten men of the lou war-cry, the ran of
shi-bea tro cam on; so the ach don the arm aga,
and bet the of the fra. now wou tho not see nob
aga slu, nor cow, unr to fig, but ver eag for
glo bat. he lef his hor and his cha ado wit bro;
and his squ, eve eur son of pto pei' son, kep
apa the sno ste; and he str cha him to hav the at
han whe wea sho com upo his lim wit mar so
man; and thu on foo ran he thr the ran of war. and
who of all the fle-hor dan he fou eag, he sto by
the and by his wor enc the: "ye arg, rel not in any
wis you imp val; for fat zeu wil be no hel of lia,
but as the wer fir to tra aga the oat, so sha the
own ten fle be eat of the vul, and we sha bea awa the
dea wiv and lit chi in our shi, whe onc we tak the
str."

but who he fou shr fro hat bat, the he cho
sor wit ang wor: "ye arg, war of the bow, ye men of
dis, hav ye no sha? why sta ye thu daz lik faw tha are
wea wit run ove the lon pla and so sta sti, and no val
is fou in the hea at all? eve thu sta ye daz, and fig
not. is it tha ye wai for the tro to com nea whe you goo
shi' ste are dra up on the sho of the gre sea, to see if
kro wil str his arm ove you ind?"

so mas ran he thr the ran of war. the cam he to
the cre as he wen thr the thr of war; and the wer
tak arm aro wis ido; ido ami the for, val
as a wil boa, and mer the whi was has his hin
bat. the aga kin of men rej to see the, and ano
spa to ido wit kin wor: "ido, mor tha all the
fle-hor dan do i hon the, whe in war or in tas of
oth sor or in the fea, whe the chi of the arg min in
the bow the gle win of the cou. for eve tho all the
oth flo-hai ach dri one all por, yet thy cup
sta eve ful eve as min, to dri as oft as the sou bid
the. now aro the to war lik suc an one as tho avo thy to
be of old."

and ido the cap of the cre mad ans to him: "atr,
of ver tru wil i be to the a tru com eve as at the fir i
pro and gav my ple; but do tho urg on all the flo-hai
ach, tha we may fig wil all spe, see the tro hav
dis the oat. but for all tha dea and sor her sha
be the lot, bec the wer the fir to tra aga the
oat."

so sai he, and aga pas on gla at hea. the cam he to the
aia as he wen thr the thr of war; and the twa wer
arm, and a clo of foo fol wit the. eve as whe a
goa fro a pla of out see a clo com acr the dee
bef the bla of the wes win; and to him bei afa it see eve
bla, eve as pit, as it goe alo the dee, and bri a gre
whi, and he shu to see it and dri his flo ben a
cav; eve in suc wis mov the ser bat of you men, the
fos of zeu, by the sid of the aia int fur war,
bat dar of lin, bri wit shi and spe. and lor
aga rej to see the and spa to the win wor, and sai:
"aia, lea of the mai-cla arg, to you twa, see it is
not see to urg you, giv i no cha; for of you own sel ye do
ind bid you fol to fig ama. ah, fat zeu and ath and
apo, wou tha all had lik spi in the bre; the wou kin
pri's cit soo bow cap and was ben our han."

so say he lef the the, and wen to oth. the fou he nes,
the cle-voi ora of the pyl, arr his com, and
urg the to fig, aro gre pel and ala and chr and
lor hai and bia she of the hos. and fir he arr the
hor wit hor and cha, and beh the the foo man and
bra, to be a bul of bat; but the cow he dra int the
mid, tha eve man, eve tho he wou not, yet of nec mus
fig. fir he lai cha upo the hor; the he bad hol in
the hor nor be ent in the thr. "nei let any man,
tru in his hor and man, be eag to fig the tro
alo and bef the res, nor yet let him dra bac, for so wil ye be
enf. but who a war fro the pla of his own car can
com at a cha of the foe, let him thr for wit his spe; eve
so is the far bet way. thu mor did men of old tim lay low
cit and wal, bec the had thi min and spi in the
bre."

so did the old man cha the, bei wel ski of yor in bat.
and lor aga rej to see hem, and spa to him win wor,
and sai: "old man, wou to god tha, eve as thy spi is in thi
own bre, thy lim mig obe and thy str be una. but the
com lot of age is hea upo the; wou tha it had com upo som
oth man, and tho wer ami the you."

the kni nes of ger ans him: "atr, i ver, eve
i too, wou wis to be as on the day whe i sle nob ere. but
the god in no wis gra men all thi at onc. as i was the a you,
so dot old age now bes me. yet eve so wil i abi amo the
hor and urg the by cou and wor; for tha is the rig of
eld. but the you men sha wie the spe, the tha are mor
you tha i and hav con in the str."

so spa he, and atr pas on gla at hea. he fou men
the cha, the son of pet, sta sti, and rou him wer
the ath, mas of the bat-cry. and har by sto cra
ody, and rou abo him the ran of kep, no fee
fol, sto sti; for the hos had not yet hea the bat-cry,
see the bat of hor-tam tro and ach had but jus
bes the to mov; so the sto sti tar til som oth
col of the ach sho adv to set upo the tro and beg
the bat. but whe aga kin of men saw it, he upb the,
and spa to the win wor, say: "o son of kin pet fos
of zeu, and tho ski in evi wil, tho cun of min, why sta
ye shr apa, and tar for oth? you bes it to sta in
you pla ami the for and to fro the fie bat; for ye are
the fir to hea my bid to the fea, as oft as we ach pre
a fea for the cou. the are ye gla to eat roa mea and
dri you cup of hon-swe win as lon as ye wil. but now wou ye
gla beh it, yea, if ten col of ach in fro of you wer
fig wit the pit swo."

but ody of man cou loo fie at him and sai:
"atr, wha wor is thi tha hat esc the bar of thy lip?
how say tho tha we are sla in bat? whe onc our [or, "tha we
are sla in bat, whe onc we ach," put the not of
int aft "tam of hor."] ach lau fur war on
the tro, tam of hor, the sha tho, if tho wil, and if
tho has any car the, beh tel' dea fat min
wit the cha of the tro, the tam of hor. but tha tho
say is emp as air."

the lor aga spa to him smi, see how he was wro, and
too bac his say: "hea-spr son of lae, ody ful of
dev, nei do i chi the bey mea nor urg the; for i
kno tha thy hea wit thy bre is kin dis; for thy
tho are as my tho. go to, we wil mak ame her, if
any ill wor hat bee spo now; may the god bri it all to non
eff."

so say he lef the the and wen on to oth. the son of tyd
fou he, hig-hea dio, sta sti wit hor and cha
wel com; and by him sto sth son of kap. him lor
aga saw and upb, and spa to him win wor, and sai:
"ah me, tho son of wis tyd tam of hor, why shr tho, why
gaz tho at the hig of the bat? not thu was tyd won to
shr, but rat to fig his ene far in fro of his dea com,
as the say tha beh him at the tas; for nev did i mee him
nor beh him, but men say tha he was pre ami all. of a tru
he cam to myk, not in enm, but as a gue wit god
pol, to rai him an arm for the war tha the wer lev
aga the hol wal of the; and the bes ear tha
val all mig be giv the, and our fol wer fai to gra the
and mad ass to the ent, onl zeu sho ome of ill and
tur the min. so whe the wer dep and wer com on the
way, and had att to aso dee in rus, tha mak his bed in
gra, the did the ach app tyd to be the amb. so
he wen and fou the mul of the son of kad fea in the
pal of mig ete. yet was kni tyd, eve tho a
str, not afr, bei alo ami the mul of the kad,
but cha the all to fea of str, and in eve one
van he the eas; so pre a hel was ath unt him. but
the kad, the urg of hor, wer wro, and as he far bac
aga the bro and set a str amb, eve fif you men, who
lea wer twa, mai son of hai, lik to the imm, and
aut' son pol sta in bat. sti eve on the tyd
bro sha dea; he sle the all, sav one tha he sen hom
alo; mai to wit he sen awa in obe to the ome of hea.
suc was tyd of ait; but he beg a son tha in bat is wor
tha he; onl in har is he the bet."

so sai he, and sta dio mad no ans, but had res to the
chi of the kin rev. but the son of glo kap ans
him: "atr, utt not fal, see tho kno how to spe
tru. we avo our to be bet men by far tha our fat wer:
we did tak the sea of the the sev gat, tho we led a sca
hos aga a str wal, bec we fol the ome of the god
and the sal of zeu; but the per by the own ini. do
not tho the in any wis hav our fat in lik hon wit us."

but sta dio loo ste at him, and sai: "bro, sit
sil and obe my say. i gru not tha aga she of the
hos sho urg on the wel-gre ach to fig; for him the
glo wil att if the ach lay the tro low and tak hol
ili; and his wil be the gre sor if the ach be lai low. go
to now, let us too bet us of imp val."

he spa and lea in his arm fro the cha to ear, and ter
ran the bro upo the chi's bre as he mov; the mig
fea hav com eve upo one sto-hea.

as whe on the  ech bea the sea-wav lif up its in clo
arr bef the dri of the wes win; out on the dee dot it fir
rai its hea, and the bre upo the lan and bel alo and
goe wit arc cre abo the pro, and spe the foa
bri afa; eve so in clo arr mov the bat of the dan
wit pau to bat. eac cap gav his men the wor, and the
res wen sil; tho wou not dee tha all the gre hos
fol the had any voi wit the bre; in sil fea
the the cap. on eve man gli the inw arm
whe the wen cla. but for the tro, lik she bey num
tha sta in the cou of a man of gre sub, to be mil of
the whi mil, and ble wit cea to hea the lam' cry,
eve so aro the cla of the tro thr the wid hos. for the
had not all lik spe nor one lan, but the ton wer
min, and the wer bro fro man lan. the wer urg on of
are, and tho of bri-eye ath, and ter and rou, and str
who fur wea not, sis and fri of mur are; her cre
is but low at the fir, but aft she hol up her hea in
hea and her fee wal upo the ear. she now cas com dis in
the mid, as she far thr the thr and mad the lam of
men to wax.

now whe the wer met tog and com unt one spo, the cla
the tar and spe and fur of bro-cla war; the bos shi
pre eac on eac and mig din aro. the wer hea the voi of
gro and the voi of tri tog of the sla and the sla,
and the ear str wit blo. as whe two win tor flo dow
the mou to a wat and joi the fur flo wit the
rav fro the gre spr, and the she hea the roa
far off amo the hil: eve so fro the joi of bat cam the
for sho and tra. ant fir sle a tro war in
ful arr, val ami the cha, ech son of tha; him
was he fir to smi upo the rid of his cre hel, and he dra
the spe int his bro and the poi of bro pas wit the bon;
dar clo his eye, and he cra lik a tow ami the pre of
fig. as he fel lor ele cau him by the foo, cha's
son, cap of the gre-hea aba, and dra him fro ben
the dar, eag wit all spe to des him of his arm. yet but
for a lit end his ess; gre-hea age saw him hal awa
the cor, and whe his sid was lef unc of his buc as he
bow him dow, the smo he him wit bro-tip spe-sha and
uns his lim. so his lif dep fro him, and ove his cor
the tas of tro and ach gre hot; lik wol lea the one at
ano, and man las at man.

nex tel aia smo ant's son, the lus str
sim, who ers is mot bar bes the ban of sim on the
way dow fro ida whi she had fol wit her par to see the
flo. the the cal him sim, but he rep not his dea
par the rec of his nur; sca was his spa of lif by
rea of the spe of gre-hea aia tha lai him low. for as he
wen he fir was smi on his rig bre bes the pap; str
tho his sho pas the spe of bro, and he fel to the
gro in the dus lik a pop-tre, tha hat gro up smo in the
low of a gre mar, and its bra gro upo the top the;
thi hat a wai fel wit gle ste, to ben him a fel
for a goo cha, and so it lie dry by a riv's ban. in suc
a fas did hea-spr aia sla sim son of ant; the
at him ant of the gla cor, pri's son, mad a cas wit
his kee jav acr the thr. him he mis, but smo ody'
val com leu in the gro as he dre the cor his way, so
tha he fel upo it and the bod dro fro his han. the ody
was ver wro at hea for the sla of him, and str thr the
for of the bat har in fla bro, and wen and sto
har by and gla aro him, and cas his bri jav; and the
tro shr bef the cas of the her. he spe not the dar in
vai, but smo dem, pri's bas son tha had com to him fro
ten his fle mar in aby. him ody, bei wro for his
com's sak, smo wit his jav on one tem; and thr bot
tem pas the poi of bro, and dar clo his eye, and
he fel wit a cra and his arm cla upo him. the the
for and glo hec yie, and the arg sho alo,
and dre the bod unt the, and pre yet fur onw. but
apo loo dow fro per, and had ind, and wit a sho
cal to the tro: "ari, ye tro, tam of hor; yie not
to the arg in fig; not of sto nor iro is the fle, tha it
sho res the pie bro whe the are smi. mor
ach, son of the of the fai tre, fig not, but ami the
shi bro on his bit ang."

so spa the dre god fro the cit; and the ach lik wer
urg on of zeu' dau the tri-bor, mos glo, as she pas
thr the thr whe she beh the sla.

nex was dio son of amr cau in the sna of fat; for he was
smi by a jag sto on the rig leg har by the ank, and the
cas the was cap of the men of thr, pei son of imb
tha had com fro ain. the pit sto cru utt the two
sin and the bon; bac fel he in the dus, and str out bot
his han to his dea com, gas out his sou. the he tha smo
him, eve pei, spr at him and pie him wit a spe bes the
nav; so all his bow gus for upo the gro, and dar
clo his eye. but eve as pei dep fro him tho of ait
smo wit a spe his che abo the pap, and the poi fix in his
lun. the tho cam clo, and plu out fro his bre the
pon spe, and dre his sha swo, whe he smo his bel
in the mid, and too his lif. yet he str not off his arm; for
his com, the men of thr tha wea the top-kno, sto aro,
the lon spe in the han, and alb he was gre and val
and pro the dra him off fro the and he gav gro ree. so
wer the two cap str in the dus sid by sid, he of the
thr and he of the mai-cla epe; and aro the wer man
oth lik sla.

now wou non any mor ent in and mak lig of the bat, cou it
be tha a man yet unw by dar or thr of kee bro mig roa
in the mid, bei led of pal ath by the han, and by her gua
fro the fly sha. for man tro tha day and man ach wer
lai sid by sid upo the fac in the dus.



boo v.

    how dio by his gre val mad hav of the tro,
    and wou eve aph and are by the hel of ath.

but now to tyd' son dio ath gav mig and cou, for him
to be pre-emi ami all the arg and win glo ren. she
kin fla unw fro his hel and shi, lik to the sta of
sum tha abo all oth gli bri aft he hat bat in
the oce str. in suc wis kin she fla fro his hea and
sho and sen him int the mid, whe men thr the thi.

now the was ami the tro one dar, ric and nob, pri of
hep; and he had two son, phe and ida, wel ski in all
the art of bat. the sep the and ass him fac to
fac, the set on him fro the car and he on foo upo the gro.
and whe the wer now com nea in ons on eac oth, fir phe
hur his far-sha spe; and ove tyd' lef sho the
spe poi pas, and smo not his bod. the nex tyd mad a
spe-cas, and the jav spe not fro his han in vai, but smo
his bre bet the nip, and thr him fro the cha. so
ida spr awa, lea his bea car, and dar not to bes
his sla bro; els had nei he him esc bla fat: but
hep gua him and sav him in a vei of dar, tha he
mig not hav his age pri all bro wit sor. and the son of
gre-hea tyd dra awa the hor and gav the to his men to
tak to the hol shi. but whe the gre-hea tro beh the
son of dar, how one was fle, and one was sla bes his cha,
the spi of all was sti. but bri-eye ath too imp
are by the han and spa to him and sai: "are, are, blo-sta
ban of mor, tho sto of wal, can we not now lea the tro
and ach to fig, on whi it be tha fat zeu bes
glo? but let us twa giv pla, and esc the wra of zeu."

so say she led imp are fro the bat.  the she mad him sit
dow bes lou ska, and the dan pus the tro bac.

so the lab in the vio mel; but of tyd man cou not
tel wit who he wer joi, whe he con wit tro or wit
ach. for he sto acr the pla lik a win tor at the
ful, tha in swi cou sca the cau [cau.]; nei
can the lon lin of cau hol it in, nor the fen of fru
orc sta its sud com whe the rai of hea dri it; and
bef it per in mul the fai wor of the son of men. thu
bef tyd the ser bat of the tro wer ove,
and the abo him not for all the wer so man.

but whe lyk's glo son mar him sto acr the pla,
ove bat bef him, ano he ben his cro bow aga
tyd, and smo him as he spe onw, hit har by his rig
sho the pla of his cor; the bit arr fle thr and
hel str upo its way, and the cor was dab wit blo. ove
him the lou sho lyk's glo son: "bes you,
gre-hea tro, urg of hor; the bes man of the ach is
wou, and i dee tha he sha not for lon end the vio dar."

so spa he boa; yet was the oth not van of the swi
dar, onl he gav pla and sto bef his hor and his cha and
spa to sth son of kap: "has the, dea son of kap;
des fro thy cha, to dra me fro my sho the bit arr."

so sai he, and sth lea fro his cha to ear and sto
bes him and dre the swi sha rig thr, out of his sho;
and the blo dar up thr the pli tun. the dio of the
lou war-cry pra the: "hea me, dau of aeg-bea zeu,
unw mai! if eve in kin moo tho sto by my fat in
the hea of bat, eve so now be tho lik kin to me, ath.
gra me to sla thi man, and bri wit my spe-cas him tha too
adv to sho me, and boa ove me, dee tha not for lon
sha i see the bri lig of the sun."

so spa he in pra, and pal ath hea him, and mad his lim
nim, his fee and his han wit, and cam nea and spa win
wor: "be of goo cou now, dio, to fig the tro; for in
thy bre i hav set thy fat's cou und, eve as it was in
kni tyd, wie of the buc. mor i hav tak fro
thi eye the mis tha ers was on the, tha tho may wel dis
bot god and man. the if any god com hit to mak tri of
the, fig not tho fac to fac wit any of the imm god; sav
onl if aph dau of zeu ent int the bat, her smi tho
wit the kee bro."

so say bri-eye ath wen her way and tyd ret and
ent the for of the bat; eve tho ers his sou was eag
to do bat wit the tro, yet now did thr cou com upo
him, as upo a lio who som she in the fie gua his fle
she hat wou, bei spr int the fol, yet hat not van
him; he hat rou his mig, and the can bea him bac, but
lur ami the ste, and his for flo is aff; so the
she are cas in hea, one upo the oth, and the lio in his fur
lea out of the hig fol; eve so in fur min mig dio
wit the tro.

him ain beh mak hav of the ran of war, and wen his
way alo the bat and ami the hur of spe, see god
pan, if hap he mig fin him. lyk's son he fou, the nob
and sta, and sto bef his fac, and spa a wor unt him.
"pan, whe now are thy bow and thy win arr, and the fam
whe no man of thi lan riv the, nor any in lyk boa to
be thy bet? go to now, lif thy han in pra to zeu and sho thy
dar at thi fel, who'er he be tha lor it her and hat alr
wro the tro muc mis, see he hat uns the kne of
man a bra man; if ind it be not som god wro wit the tro,
in ang by rea of sac; the wra of god is a sor thi to
fal on men."

and lyk's glo son mad ans to him: "ain, cou of
the mai-cla tro, in eve lik i him to the wis son of
tyd; i dis him by his shi and cre hel, and by the
asp of his hor; yet kno i not sur if it be not a god. but if
it be the man i dee, eve the wis son of tyd, the not wit hel
of a god is he thu fur, but som imm sta bes him wit
a clo wra abo his sho and tur asi fro him my swi
dar eve as it lig. for alr hav i sho my dar at him and
smo his rig sho rig thr the bre of his cor,
yea and i tho to hur him hea to aid, yet i van him
not; sur it is som wra god. alr hav i aim at two
pri, tyd' and atr' son, and bot i smo and sur dre
for blo, yet onl rou the the mor. the in an evi hou i
too fro the peg my cur bow on tha day whe i led my tro to
lov ili, to do nob hec ple. but if i ret and min eye
beh my nat lan and wif and gre pal lof-roo, the may
an ali for cut my hea fro me if i bre not thi bow wit min
han and cas it upo the bla fir; wor is its ser to me
as air."

the ain cap of the tro ans him: "nay, tal not thu;
nau sha be men bef tha we wit hor and cha hav gon
to fac thi man, and mad tri of him in arm. com the, mou upo
my car tha tho may see of wha sor are the ste of tro, wel
ski for fol or for fle hit or thi ver fle
acr the pla; the wil e'en bri us to the cit saf and sou,
eve tho zeu her giv vic to dio son of tyd. com
the, tak tho the las and shi rei, and i wil sta upo
the car to fig; or els wit tho him, and to the hor wil i
loo."

to him mad ans lyk's glo son: "ain, tak tho thy
the rei and thi own hor; bet wil the dra the cur car for
the won cha, if per it hap tha we mus fle fro
tyd' son; les the go wil for fea and wil not tak us fro the
fig, for lac of thy voi, and so the son of gre-hea tyd
att us and sla us bot and dri awa the who-hoo hor. so
dri tho thy thy cha and thy hor, and i wil awa his
ons wit my kee spe." so say mou the upo the wel dig
cha, and eag dra the fle hor aga tyd, and
sth, the glo son of kap, saw the, and ano spa to
tyd win wor: "dio son of tyd, dea to min hea, i
beh two sta war eag to fig aga the, end wit
mig bey mea. the one is wel ski in the bow, eve pan,
and he mor boa him to be lyk's son; and ain boa
him to be bor son of gre-hea anc, and his mot is
aph. com now, let us giv pla upo the cha, nei rag
tho thu, i pra the, in the for of bat, les per tho
los thy lif."

the sta dio loo ste at him and sai: "spe to me no
wor of fli, for i wee tha tho sha not at all per me; not
in my blo is it to fig a sku fig or cow dow; my for is
ste sti. i hav no min to mou the cha, nay, eve as i am
wil i go to fac the; pal ath bid me not be afr. and as
for the, the fle hor sha not tak bot bac fro us aga,
eve if one or oth esc. and thi mor tel i the, and lay tho
it to hea: if ath ric in cou gra me thi glo, to sla the
bot, the ref tho her the my fle hor, and bin the rei
tig to the cha rim; and be min to lea upo ain' hor,
and dri the for fro the tro ami the wel-gre ach.
for the are of tha bre whe far zeu gav to tro
rec for gan his chi, bec the wer the bes of all
hor ben the day and the sun."

in suc wis tal the one to the oth, and ano tho oth twa
cam nea, dri the fle hor. fir to him spa lyk's
glo son: "o tho str-sou and cun, son of pro tyd,
ver my swi dar van the not, the bit arr; so now wil
i mak tri wit my spe if i can hit the."

he spa and poi and hur his far-sha spe, and smo upo
tyd' shi; rig thr it spe the poi of bro and rea
the bre. so ove him sho lou lyk's glo son: "tho
art smi on the bel rig thr, and i wee tho sha not lon
hol up thi hea; so tho giv me gre ren."

but mig dio una ans him: "tho has mis, and
not hit; but ye twa i dee sha not cea til one or oth sha
hav fal and glu wit blo are the stu god of war."

so spa he and hur; and ath gui the dar upo his nos bes
the eye, and it pie thr his whi tee. so the har bro cut
thr his ton at the roo and the poi iss for by the bas of
the chi. he fel fro his cha, and his spl arm gle
cla upo him, and the fle-foo hor swe asi; so the
his sou and str wer uns.

the ain lea dow wit shi and lon spe, fea les
per the ach mig tak fro him the cor; and str ove
him lik a lio con in his str, and hel bef him his spe
and the cir of his shi, eag to sla who'er sho com to fac
him, cry his ter cry. the tyd gra in his han a
sto--a mig dee--suc as two men, as men now are, wou not ava
to lif; yet he wit eas wie it all alo. the he smo
ain on the hip whe the thi tur in the hip joi, and thi
men cal the "cup-bon." so he cru his cup-bon, and bra bot
sin wit, and the jag sto tor apa the ski. the the her
sta fal upo his kne and wit sto han lea upo the ear;
and the dar of nig vei his eye. and now mig ain kin of
men hav per, but tha aph dau of zeu was swi to
mar. abo her dea son wou she her whi arm, and spr bef his
fac a fol of her rad ves, to be a cov fro the dar,
les any of the fle-hor dan mig hur the spe int his
bre and tak awa his lif.

so was she bea her dea son awa fro bat; but the son of
kap for not the beh tha dio of the lou war-cry had
lai upo him; he ref his own who-hoo hor awa fro the
tum, bin the rei tig to the cha-rim, and lea on the
sle-coa hor of ain, and dra the fro the tro to the
wel-gre ach, and gav the to dei his dea com who
he est abo all tha wer his age-fel, bec he was
lik-min wit him; and bad him dri the to the hol shi.
the did the her mou his own cha and tak the shi rei and
for dri his str-hoo hor in que of tyd, eag.
now tyd had mad ons wit pit wea on kyp
[aph], kno how she was a cow god and non of tho tha
hav mas in bat of the war. now whe he had pur her
thr the den thr and com on her, the gre-hea tyd' son
thr wit his kee spe, and lea on her and wou the ski of her
wea han; str thr the amb rai tha the gra
the had wov her pie the dar int the fle, abo the
spr of the pal. the flo the god's imm blo, suc
ich as flo in the ble god; for the eat no bre nei
dri the gle win, whe the are blo and are nam
imm. and she wit a gre cry let fal her son: him pho apo
too int his arm and sav him in a dus clo, les any of the
fle-hor dan mig hur the spe int his bre and tak awa
his lif. but ove her dio of the lou war-cry sho afa:
"ref the, tho dau of zeu, fro war and fig. is it not
eno tha tho beg fee wom? but if in bat tho wil
min, ver i dee tha tho sha shu at the nam of bat, if
tho hea it eve afa off."

so spa he, and she dep in ama and was sor tro: and
win-foo iri too her and led her fro the thr tor wit her
pai, and her fai ski was sta. the fou she imp are
sit, on the bat's lef; and his spe res upo a clo, and
his fle ste. the she fel on her kne and wit ins pra
bes of her dea bro his gol-fro ste: "dea
bro, sav me and giv me thy ste, tha i may win to oly,
whe is the hab of the imm. sor am i aff wit a
wou whe a mor smo me, eve tyd, who now wou fig
eve wit fat zeu."

so spa she, and are gav her his gol-fro ste, and she
mou on the cha sor at hea. by her sid mou iri, and in
her han gra the rei and las the hor to sta the; and
the fle onw not lot. thu soo the cam to the hab of
the god, eve ste oly. the win-foo fle iri loo the
hor fro the cha and sta the, and set amb for
bef the; but fai aph fel upo dio's kne tha was her
mot. she too her dau in her arm and str her wit her han,
and spa and cal upo her nam: "who now of the son of hea, dea
chi, hat ent the thu wan, as tho tho wer a
wro-doe in the fac of all?"

the lau-lov aph mad ans to her: "tyd' son wou
me, hig-hea dio, bec i was sav fro the bat my dea
son ain, who to me is dea far of all men. for no mor is the
fie bat-cry for tro and ach, but the dan now are
fig eve the imm."

the the fai god dio ans her: "be of goo hea, my chi,
and end for all thy pai; for man of us tha inh the man of
oly hav suf thr men, in bri gri woe one upo
ano."

so say wit bot han she wip the ich fro the arm; her arm was
com, and the gri pan ass. but ath and her beh,
and wit bit wor pro zeu the son, of kro. of the was the
bri-eye god ath fir to spe: "fat zeu, wil tho
ind be wro wit me wha'er i say? ver i wee tha kyp was
urg som wom of ach to joi her unt the tro who she so
mar lov; and str suc an one of the fai-rob wom of
ach, she tor upo the gol bro her del han."

so spa she, and the fat of god and men smi, and cal unt him
gol aph and sai: "not unt the, my chi, are giv the wor
of war; but fol tho aft the lov tas of wed, and to all
the thi sha fle are and ath loo."

now whi the thu spa in con one wit the oth, dio of
the lou war-cry lea upo ain, kno ful wel tha apo
him had spr his arm ove him; yet rev he not eve the
gre god, but sti was eag to sla ain and str fro him his
glo arm. so thr he lea on him, fai to sla him, and thr
apo bea bac his gli shi. and whe the fou tim he
spr at him lik a god, the apo the far-dar spa to him wit
ter sho: "thi, tyd, and shr, nor des to mat thy
spi wit god; see the is no com of the rac of imm
god and of men tha wal upo the ear."

so sai he, and tyd shr a sho spa bac, to avo the
wra of apo the far-dar. the apo set ain awa fro the
thr in hol per whe his tem sto. the let and arc
art hea him in the mig san, and gav him glo; but
apo of the sil bow mad a wra lik unt ain' sel, and in
suc arm as his; and ove the wra tro and goo ach eac
hew the oth' buc on the bre, the rou shi and
flu tar.

the to imp are sai pho apo: "are, are, blo-sta
ban of mor, tho sto of wal, wil tho not fol aft thi
man and wit him fro the bat, thi tyd, who now wou fig
eve wit fat zeu? fir in clo fig he wou kyp in her
han har by the wri, and the spr he upo mys lik unt a god."

so say he sat him upo the hei of per, and bal are
ent amo the tro ran and aro the in the lik of fle
aka, cap of the thr. on the hea-nur son of pri
he cal say: "o ye son of pri, the hea-nur kin, how
lon wil ye yet suf you hos to be sla of the ach? sha it
be eve unt the fig abo our wel-bui gat? low lie the
war who we est lik unt goo hec, eve ain son of
anc gre of hea. go to now, let us sav fro the tum our
val com."

so say he aro the spi and sou of eve man. the sar
sor cho nob hec: "hec, whe now is the spi gon tha
ers tho had? tho sai for tha wit arm or all tho
wou hol the cit, alo wit thy sis' hus and thy
bro; but now can i not see any of the nei per the, but
the are cow lik hou abo a lio; and we are fig tha are
but all amo you."

so spa sar, and his wor stu hec to the hea, for he
lea fro his cha in his arm to the ear, and bra two
kee spe wen eve thr the hos, urg the to fig, and
rou the dre bat-cry. so the wer ral and sto to fac the
ach: and the arg wit the in clo arr and fle not.
eve as a win car the cha abo the sac thr-flo whe
men are win, and the cha-hea gro whi--so now gre the
ach whi wit fal dus whi in the mid the hor' hoo
bea up int the bra hea, as fig was joi aga, and the
cha whe rou. thu bar the for the fur of the
han: and imp are dre rou the a vei of nig to aid the
tro in the bat, ran eve. and apo him sen for
ain fro his ric san and put cou in the hea of him,
she of the hos. so ain too his pla ami his com, and
the wer gla to see him com amo the ali and sou and ful of
val spi. yet the que him not at all, for all the toi
for the tha the god of the sil bow was sti and are ban
of men and str rag ins.

and on the oth sid the two aia and ody and dio sti
the dan to fig; yet the of the fea nei the
tro' vio nor ass, but sto lik mis tha kro' son
set in win air on the mou top, at pea, whi the mig
of the nor win sle and of all the vio win tha blo wit
kee bre and sca apa the sha clo. eve so the dan
wit the tro ste and fle not. and atr ran
thr the thr exh ins: "my fri, qui you lik men
and tak hea of cou, and shu dis in one ano's eye ami
the str of bat. of men tha shu dis mor are sav tha
sla, but for the tha fle is nei glo fou nor any saf."

so say he dar swi wit his jav and smo a for
war, eve gre-hea ain' com dei son of per,
who the tro hel in lik hon wit pri's son, bec he was
swi to do bat ami the for. him lor aga smo wit his
dar upo the shi, and it sta not the spe, but the poi pas
thr, so tha he dra it thr the bel int his net bel:
and he fel wit a cra and his arm cla upo him.

the did ain sla two cha of the dan, eve the son of
dio, kre and ors. lik the, two lio on the mou
top are nur by the dam in the dee for thi; and the
har the kin and goo she and mak hav of the far of men,
til in the tur the too are sla at men's han wit the kee
bro; in suc wis wer the twa van at ain' han and
fel lik tal pin-tre.

but men dea to are had pit of the in the fal, and str
thr the for, har in fla bro, bra his
spe; and are sti his cou, wit int tha he mig fal
ben ain' han. but ant, gre-hea nes's son,
beh him, and str thr the for; bec he fea
exc for the she of the hos, les aug bef him and
dis the utt of the lab. so tho two wer now hol
for the han and sha spe eac aga the oth, eag to do
bat; whe ant cam and sto har by the she of the hos.
but ain fac the not, kee war tho he was, whe he beh
two men abi sid by sid; so the hal awa the cor to the
ach' hos, and lai the hap twa in the com' arm, and
the tur bac and fou on ami the for.

but hec mar the acr the ran, and spr on the wit a
sho, and the bat of the tro fol him in the mig:
and are led the on and dre eny, she bri rut tur of
war, the whi are wie in his han his mon spe, and ran
now bef hec's fac, and now beh.

the dio of the lou war-cry shu to beh him; and eve as a
shi man cro a gre pla com on a swi-str riv
flo on to the sea, and see it boi wit foa spr bac,
eve so now tyd shr bac and spa to the hos: "fri, how
mar we tha nob hec is a spe and bol man of war! yet eve
is the bes him som god tha war off des; eve as now
are is the by him in lik of a mor man. but wit fac tow
the tro sti giv gro bac, nei be des to fig
ama wit god."

now the arg bef the fac of are and mai-cla hec nei
tur the rou abo tow the bla shi, nor cha for in
bat, but sti fel bac, whe the hea of are ami the
tro. but whe the whi-arm god her mar the mak hav
of the arg in the pre of bat, ano she spa win wor to
ath: "out on it, tho dau of aeg-bea zeu, unw
mai! was it for nau we ple our wor to men, tha he
sho not dep til he had lai was wel-wal ili,--if thu we
let bal are rag? go to now, let us twa als tak tho of
imp val."

so sai she, and the bri-eye god ath dis not. so her
the god que, dau of kro, wen her way to har the
gol-fro ste. and ath, dau of aeg-bea zeu, cas
dow at her fat's thr her wov ves man-col, tha
her had wro and her han had fas, and put on her the
tun of zeu the clo-gat, and arr her in her arm for
dol bat. abo her sho cas she the tas aeg
ter, whe is pan as a cro all rou abo, and str is
the and val and hor ons wit, and the is the
dre mon's gor hea, dre and gri, por of
aeg-bea zeu. upo her hea set she the two-cre gol hel
wit fou pla, bed wit men-at-arm of a hun cit. upo
the fla cha set she her foo, and gra her hea spe, gre
and sto, whe she van the ran of men, eve of her
wit who she of the awf sir is wro. the her swi smo the
hor wit the las; sel-mov gro upo the hin the gat of
hea whe the hou are war, to who is com gre hea
and oly, whe to thr ope the thi clo or set it to. the
thr the gat gui the the hor pat of the las. and the
fou the son of kro sit apa fro all the god on the top
pea of man-rid oly. the the whi-arm god her sta
her hor and que the mos hig zeu, the son of kro, and
sai: "fat zeu, has tho no ind wit are for the vio
dee? how gre and goo a com of ach hat he des
rec and in unr wis, unt my sor. but her in pea kyp
and apo of the sil bow tak the ple, hav set on thi mad
one tha kno not any law. fat zeu, wil tho at all be wro
wit me if i smi are and cha him fro the bat in sor pli?"

and zeu the clo-gat ans and sai to her: "go to now, set
upo him ath dri of the spo, who mos is won to bri sor pai
upo him."

so spa he, and the whi-arm god her dis not, and
las her hor; the not lot fle on bet ear and sta
hea. as far as a man see wit his eye int the haz of dis as
he sit on a pla of out and gaz ove the win-dar sea, so
far lea the lou nei hor of the god. now whe the cam to
tro and the two flo riv, eve to whe sim and ska
joi the str, the the whi-arm god her sta her hor
and loo the fro the car and pou thi mis rou abo the, and
sim mad amb spr up for the to gra. so the god wen
the way wit ste lik unt tur-dov, bei fai to bri suc
to the men of arg. and whe the wer now com whe the mos and mos
val sto, thr abo mig dio tam of hor, in the
sem of rav lio or wil boa who str is now
fee, the sto the whi-arm god her and sho in the
lik of gre-hea ste wit voi of bro, who cry was
lou as the cry of fif oth men: "fie upo you, arg, bas thi
of sha, so bra in sem! whi yet nob ach ent
con int bat, the iss not the tro eve fro the
dar gat; for the had dre of his ter spe. but now fig
the far fro the cit at the hol shi."

so say she aro the spi and sou of eve man. and to tyd'
sid spr the bri-eye god ath. tha lor she fou bes
his hor and cha, coo the wou tha pan wit his dar
had pie, for his swe vex it by rea of the bro bal of
his rou shi; the was he vex and his arm gre wea, so he
was lif up the bal and wip awa the dus blo. the the
god lai her han on his hor' yok, and sai: "of a tru tyd
beg a son lit aft his own lik. tyd was sho of sta,
but a man of war."

and sta dio mad ans to her and sai: "i kno the, god
dau of aeg-bea zeu: the wit my who hea wil i
tel the my tho and hid it not. nei hat dis ter
tak hol upo me, nor any fai, but i am sti min of thy
beh tha tho did lay upo me. tho for me to fig fac to
fac wit all the ble god, sav onl if zeu' dau aph
sho ent int bat, the to wou her wit the kee bro.
the do i now giv gro mys and hav bid all the arg
lik to gat her tog; for i dis are lor it in the
fra."

the the bri-eye god ath ans him: "dio son of
tyd, tho joy of min hea, fea tho, for tha, nei are nor
any oth of the imm; so gre a hel am i to the. go to now,
at are fir gui tho thy who-hoo hor, and smi him han to
han, nor hav any awe of imp are, rav her, a cur inc,
the ren tha of lat in con wit me and her ple him
to fig aga the tro and giv suc to the arg, but now
con wit the tro and hat for the."

so spe, wit her han she dre bac sth and thr him fro
the cha to ear, and ins lea he dow; so the god
mou the car by nob dio' sid rig eag. the oak axl
cre lou wit its bur, bea the dre god and the man of
mig. the ath gra the whi and rei; for aga are
fir gui she the who-hoo hor. now he was str hug
per, mos val far of the ait, och' glo son. him
was blo-sta are str; and ath don the hel of had,
tha ter are mig not beh her. now whe are sco of
mor beh nob dio, he lef hug per lyi the, whe
at the fir he had sla him and tak awa his lif, and mad str
at dio tam of hor. now whe the wer com nig in ons on
one ano, fir are thr ove the yok and hor's rei wit
spe of bro, eag to tak awa his lif. but the bri-eye
god ath wit her han sei the spe and thr it up ove the
car, to spe its in vai. nex dio of the lou war-cry att
wit spe of bro; and ath dra it hom aga are' net
bel, whe his tas wer gir abo him. the smo he him and
wou him, ren thr his fai ski, and plu for the spe
aga. the bra are bel lou as nin tho war or ten
tho cry in bat as the joi in str and fra. the
tre gat hol of ach and tro for fea, so mig
bel are ins of bat.

eve as glo mis app fro the clo whe aft bea a sto
win ari, eve so to tyd' son dio bra are app ami
clo, far to wid hea. swi cam he to the god' dwe,
ste oly, and sat bes zeu son of kro wit gri at hea,
and she the imm blo flo fro the wou, and pit
spa to him win wor: "fat zeu, has tho no ind to
beh the vio dee? for eve cru suf we god by one
ano's dev, in she men gra. wit the are we all at
var, bec tho did beg tha rec mai and bal,
who tho is eve of ini dee. for all the oth god tha
are in oly hea to the, and we are sub eve one; onl her
tho cha not, nei in dee nor wor, but set her on,
bec thi pes one is thi own off. now hat she urg on
tyd' son, eve ove dio, to rag fur aga the
imm god. kyp fir he wou in clo fig, in the wri of
her han, and the ass he me, eve me, wit the mig of a god.
how my swi fee bar me awa; els had i lon end ang
the ami the gri hea of dea, or els had liv str fro
the smi of the spe."

the zeu the clo-gat loo ste at him and sai: "nay, tho
ren, sit not by me and whi. mos hat to me art tho of all
god tha dwe in oly: tho eve lov str and war and
bat. tru thy mot's spi is int, uny, eve
her's; her can i sca rul wit wor. the i dee tha by her
pro tho art in thi pli. yet wil i no lon end to see
the in ang; min off art tho, and to me thy mot bar
the."

so spa he and bad pai hea him.  and pai lai ass dru
upo the wou. eve as fig jui mak has to thi whi mil,
tha is liq but cur spe as a man sti, eve so swi
hea he imp are. and heb bat him, and clo him in
gra rai, and he sat him dow by zeu son of kro, glo
in his mig.

the far the twa bac to the man of gre zeu, eve her and
ath, hav sta are sco of mor fro his man-sla.



boo vi.

    how dio and gla, bei abo to fig, wer kno
    to eac oth, and par in fri. and how hec
    ret to the cit bad far to and his wif.

so was the dre fra of tro and ach lef to its, and the
bat swa oft thi way and tha acr the pla, as the aim
aga eac oth the bro-sho jav, bet sim and the
str of xan.

now had the tro bee cha aga by the ach, dea to are, up
int ili, in the wea ove, but tha pri's son hel,
far bes of aug, sto by ain' sid and hec's, and spa to
the: "ain and hec, see tha on you lie the tas of war in
chi of tro and lyk, bec for eve iss ye are for
bot for fig and cou, sta ye you gro, and ran the hos
eve to ral the bef the gat, ere yet the fal fle
in the wom's arm, and be mad a rej to the foe. the whe ye
hav aro all our bat we wil abi her and fig the
dan, tho in sor wea; for nec pre us har: but
tho, hec, go int the cit, and spe the to thy mot and min;
let her gat the age wiv to bri-eye ath's tem in the
upp cit, and wit her key ope the doo of the hol hou; and let
her lay the rob, tha see to her the mos gra and gre in
her hal and far dea unt her, upo the kne of
bea-hai ath; and vow to her to sac in her tem
twe sle kin, tha hav not fel the goa, if she wil hav mer
on the cit and the tro' wiv and lit chi. so may she
per hol bac tyd' son fro hol ili, the fur spe,
the mig dev of rou, who in goo soo i dee to hav pro
him mig of the ach. nev in thi wis fea we
ach, pri of men, who the say is bor of a god; nay, but he
tha we see is bey mea fur; non can mat him for mig."

so spa he, and hec dis not his bro's wor, but lea
for fro his cha in his arm to ear, and bra two
sha spe pas eve thr the hos, rou the to bat,
and sti the dre war-cry. so the wer ral and sto to fac
the ach, and the arg gav gro and cea fro sla, and
dee tha som imm had des fro sta hea to bri the
tro suc, in suc wis ral the. the hec cal to the
tro wit far-rea sho: "o hig-sou tro and ye far-fam
all, qui you lik men, my fri, and tak tho of imp
cou, whi i dep to ili and bid the eld of the cou and
our wiv pra to the god and vow the hec."

so say hec of the gla hel dep, and the bla hid bea
on eit sid aga his ank and his nec, eve the rim tha ran
utt abo his bos shi.

now gla son of hip and tyd' son met in the mid-spa of
the foe, eag to do bat. thu whe the twa wer com nig in
ons on eac oth, to him fir spa dio of the lou war-cry:
"who art tho, nob sir, of mor men? for nev hav i beh the in
glo bat ere thi, yet now has tho far out all men in
thy har, see tho abi my far-sha spe. luc are
the fat who chi fac my mig. but if tho art som imm
com dow fro hea, the wil not i fig wit hea god. but if
tho art of men tha eat the fru of the fie, com nig, tha ano
tho may ent the toi of des."

the hip' glo son mad ans to him: "gre-hea
tyd, why enq tho of my gen? eve as are the
gen of lea suc are tho lik of men; the lea tha be
the win sca on the ear, and the for bud and put
for mor aga, whe the sea of spr is at han; so of the
gen of men one put for and ano cea. yet if tho
wil, hav thi ans, tha tho may wel kno our lin, whe
man men hav kno. hip, son of bel, beg me, and
of him do i dec me to be spr; he sen me to tro and bad me ver
ins to be eve the bes and to exc all oth men, nor put to
sha the lin of my fat tha wer of nob blo in eph and
in wid lyk. thi is the lin and blo whe i avo mys to
be."

so sai he, and dio of the lou war-cry was gla. he pla his
spe in the bou ear and wit sof wor spa to the she
of the hos: "sur the tho art to me a gue-fri of old tim
thr my fat: for goo oin of yor ent nob
bel in his hal and kep him twe day. mor the gav
eac the oth goo gif of fri; oin gav a bel bri
wit pur, and bel a gol two-han cup. the now am i
to the a dea gue-fri in mid arg, and tho in lyk,
whe'er i far to you lan. so let us shu eac oth's spe, eve
ami the thr; tro are the in mul and fam all for
me to sla, who'er it be tha god vou me and my fee ove;
and for the are the ach in mul, to sla who'er tho
can. but let us mak exc of arm bet us, tha the als may
kno how we avo our to be gue-fri by lin."

so spa the twa, and lea fro the car cla eac the oth
by his han, and ple the fai. but now zeu son of kro too
fro gla his wit, in tha he mad exc wit dio tyd'
son of gol arm for bro, the pri of fiv sco oxe for the
pri of nin.

now whe hec cam to the ska gat and to the oak tre, the cam
run rou abo him the tro' wiv and dau, enq of
son and bre and fri and hus. but he bad the the all
in tur pra to the god; but sor hun ove man.

but whe he cam to pri's bea pal, ado wit pol
col--and in it wer fif cha of pol sto, bui
har by one ano, whe pri's son sle bes the wed
wiv; and for his dau ove aga the on the oth sid wit
the cou wer twe roo cha of pol sto bui har
by one ano, whe sle pri's son-in-law bes the cha
wiv--the cam the to mee him his bou mot, lea wit
her lao, fai of her dau to loo on; and she cla her
han in his, and spa, and cal upo his nam: "my son, why has tho
lef vio bat to com hit. sur the son of the
ach--nam of evi!--pre the har in fig abo thy cit, and so
thy spi hat bro the hit, to com and str for thy han
to zeu fro the cit. but tar til i bri the hon-swe win,
tha tho may pou lib to zeu and all the imm fir, and
the sha tho thy als be ref if tho wil dri. whe a man
is awe win gre mak his str to wax, eve as tho art
awe in fig for thy fel."

the gre hec of the gla hel ans her: "bri me no
hon-hea win, my lad mot, les tho cri me of my cou
and i be for of my mig. but go tho to the tem of ath,
dri of the spo, wit off, and gat the age wiv tog;
and the rob tha see to the the mos gra and gre in thy
pal, and dea unt thy, tha lay tho upo the kne of
bea-hai ath, and vow to her to sac in her tem
twe sle kin, tha hav not fel the goa, if she wil hav mer
on the cit and the tro' wiv and lit chi. so go tho to
the tem of ath, dri of the spo; and i wil go aft par, to
sum him, if per he wil hea to my voi. wou tha the
ear for mig swa him up! the oly fos him to be a
sor ban to the tro and to gre-hea pri, and to pri's
son. if i but saw him goi dow to the gat of dea, the mig i
dee tha my hea had for its sor."

so sai he, and she wen unt the hal, and cal to her han,
and the gat the age wiv thr the cit. the she her
wen dow to her fra cha whe wer her emb rob, the
wor of sid wom, who god ale him bro fro
sid, whe he sai ove the wid sea, tha jou whe he bro
hom hig-bor hel. of the hek too one to bea for an off
to ath, the one tha was fai for ado and gre, and
sho lik a sta, and lay net of all. the wen she her way and
the mul of age wiv has aft her. and hec was com to
ale' fai pal, tha him had bui wit the tha wer
mos exc car the in dee-soi tro-lan; the mad him
his cha and hal and cou har by to pri and hec, in the
upp cit. the ent in hec dea to zeu, and his han bar his
spe, ele cub lon: bef his fac gli the bro
spe-poi, and a rin of gol ran rou abo it. and he fou par
in his cha bus wit his bea arm, his shi and
bre, and han his cur bow; and hel of arg sat amo
her ser-wom and app bra han for her han.
the whe hec saw him he reb him wit sco wor: "goo sir,
tho dos not wel to che thi ran in thy hea. the fol are
per abo the cit and hig wal in bat, and for thy sak the
bat-cry is kin and war aro thi cit; yes thy wou
tho fal out wit ano, did tho see him shr fro hat
war. up the, les the cit soo be sco wit bur fir."

and god ale ans him: "hec, sin in mea tho
chi me and not bey mea, the wil i tel the; lay tho
it to thi hea and hea to me. not by rea so muc of the
tro, for wra and ind, sat i me in my cha, but fai
wou i yie me to my sor. eve now my wif hat per me wit
sof wor, and urg me int bat; and i mor, eve i, dee tha
it wil be bet so; for vic shi fro man to man. go to the,
tar awh, let me put on my arm of war; or els far tho for,
and i wil fol; and i thi to ove the."

so sai he, but hec of the gla hel ans him not a wor. but
hel spa to him wit gen wor: "my bro, eve min tha am a
dog, mis and abo, wou tha on the day whe my mot
bar me at the fir, an evi sto-win had cau me awa to a
mou or a bil of the lou-sou sea, whe the bil mig
hav swe me awa bef all the thi cam to pas. how, see
the god dev all the ill in thi wis, wou tha the i had bee
mat wit a bet man, tha fel dis and the mul of men's
rep. but as for him, nei hat he now sou hea, nor eve
wil hav; the dee i mor tha he wil rea the fru. but now
com, ent in and sit the her upo thi ben, my bro, sin thy
hea chi tro hat enc, for the sak of me, tha am a
dog, and for ale' sin; on who zeu bri evi doo, tha eve
in day to com we may be a son in the ear of men tha sha be
her."

the gre hec of the gla hel ans her: "bid me not sit,
hel, of thy lov; tho wil not per me. alr my hea is set
to suc the men of tro, tha hav gre des for me tha am not
wit the. but rou tho thi fel, yea let him mak spe, to
ove me yet wit the cit. for i sha go int min hou to
beh my hou and my dea wif, and inf boy; for i kno not if
i sha ret hom to the aga, or if the god wil now ove me
at the han of the ach."

so spa hec of the gla hel and dep; and ano he cam to
his wel-sta hou. but he fou not whi-arm and in
the hal; she wit her boy and fai-rob han had tak her
sta upo the tow, wee and wai. and whe hec fou not his
nob wif wit, he cam and sto upo the thr and spa ami
the ser wom: "com tel me now tru, my ser wom. whi
wen whi-arm and for fro the hal? hat she gon out to my
sis or unt my bro' fai-rob wiv, or to ath's tem,
whe all the fai-tre tro wom pro the awf god?"

the a bus hou spa in ans to him: "hec, see tho
str cha us tel the tru, nei hat she gon out to any of
thy sis or thy bro' fai-rob wiv, nei to ath's
tem, whe all the fai-tre tro wom are pro the
awf god; but she wen to the gre tow of ili, bec she
hea the tro wer har pre, and gre vic was for the
ach. so hat she com in has to the wal, lik unt one fre;
and the nur wit her bea the chi."

so spa the hou, and hec has fro his hou bac by the
sam way dow the wel-bui str. whe he had pas thr the
gre cit and was com to the ska gat, whe he was min to
iss upo the pla, the cam his dea-won wif, run to mee him,
eve and dau of gre-hea eet. so she met him now,
and wit her wen the han bea in her bos the ten boy, the
lit chi, hec's lov son, lik unt a bea sta. him hec
cal ska, but all the fol ast [ast = "cit kin."];
for onl hec gua ili. so now he smi and gaz at his boy
sil, and and sto by his sid wee, and cla her han
in his, and spa and cal upo his nam. "dea my lor, thi thy
har wil und the, nei has tho any pit for thi inf
boy, nor for me for tha soo sha be thy wid; for soo wil the
ach all set upo the and sla the. but it wer bet for me to
go dow to the gra if i los the; for nev mor wil any com be
min, whe onc tho, eve tho, has met thy fat, but onl sor.
nay, hec, tho art to me fat and lad mot, yea and bro,
eve as tho art my goo hus. com now, hav pit and abi her
upo the tow, les tho mak thy chi an orp and thy wif a
wid."

the gre hec of the gla hel ans her: "sur i tak
tho for all the thi, my wif; but i hav ver sor sha of the
tro and tro dam wit tra rob, if lik a cow i shr
awa fro bat. mor min own sou for me, see i hav
lea eve to be val and fig in the for of the tro,
win my fat's gre glo and min own. yea of a sur i kno
thi in hea and sou; the day sha com for hol ili to be lai
low, and pri and the fol of pri of the goo ash spe. yet dot
the ang of the tro her not so muc tro me, nei
hek's own, nei kin pri's, nei my bre's, the man and
bra tha sha fal in the dus bef the foe, as dot thi
ang in the day whe som mai-cla ach sha lea the wee
and rob the of the lig of fre. so sha tho abi in arg and
ply the loo at ano wom's bid, and bea wat fro fou
mes or hyp, bei gri ent, and sor con
sha be lai upo the. and the sha one say tha beh the
wee: 'thi is the wif of hec, tha was for in bat of the
hor-tam tro whe men fou abo ili.' thu sha one say
her, and fre gri wil be thi for lac of suc an hus as
tho had to war off the day of thr. but me in dea may the
hea-up ear be cov, ere i hea thy cry and thy car int
cap."

so spa glo hec, and str out his arm to his boy. but the
chi shr cry to the bos of his fai-gir nur, dis at
his dea fat's asp, and in dre at the bro and hor-hai
cre tha he beh nod fie fro the hel's top. the his
dea fat lau alo, and his lad mot; for glo
hec too the hel fro his hea, and lai it, all gle, upo
the ear; the kis he his dea son and dan him in his arm, and
spa in pra to zeu and all the god, "o zeu and all ye god,
vou ye tha thi my son may lik pro eve as i, pre-emi
ami the tro, and as val in mig, and be a gre kin of ili.
the may men say of him, 'far gre is he tha his fat' as he
ret hom fro bat; and may he bri wit him blo-sta
spo fro the foe he hat sla, and may his mot's hea be
gla."

so spa he, and lai his son in his dea wif's arm; and she too him
to her fra bos, smi tea. and her hus had pit to
see her, and car her wit his han, and spa and cal upo her
nam: "dea one, i pra the be not of ove hea; no man
aga my fat sha hur me to had; onl des, i wee, no man
hat esc, be he cow or be he val, whe onc he hat bee
bor. but go tho to thi hou and see to thi own tas, the loo
and dis, and bid thi han ply the wor; but for war sha
men pro, and i in chi of all men tha dwe in ili."

so spa glo hec, and too up his hor-hai cre hel; and
his dea wif dep to her hom, oft loo bac, and let fal
big tea. ano she cam to the wel-sta hou of man-sla
hec, and fou the her man han, and sti lam
in the all. so bew the hec, whi yet he liv, wit his
hou: for the dee tha he wou no mor com bac to the fro
bat, nor esc the fur of the han of the ach.

nei lin par lon in his lof hou, but clo on him his
bra arm, bed wit bro, and has thr the cit, tru
to his nim fee. eve as whe a sta hor, ful-fed at the
man, bre his tet and spe at the gal acr the pla,
bei won to bat him in the fai-flo str, exu; and
hol his hea on hig, and his man flo abo his sho, and
he tru in his glo, and nim his lim bea him to the hau
and pas of mar; eve so pri's son par, gli in his
arm lik the shi sun, str dow fro hig per lau,
and his swi fee bar him. for he ove his bro nob
hec, eve as he was on the poi to tur him awa fro the spo whe
he had dal wit his wif. to him fir spa god ale:
"sir, in goo soo i hav del the in thi has by my tar,
and cam not rig as tho bad me."

and hec of the gla hel ans him and sai: "goo bro, no
man tha is rig cou mak lig of thy doi in fig, see
tho art str: but tho art wil rem and has no car; and for
thi my hea is gri wit me, tha i hea sha wor
con the in the tro' mou, who for thy sak end muc
toi. but let us be goi; all thi wil we mak goo her, if zeu
eve vou us to set bef the hea god tha are for
eve the cup of del in our hal, whe we hav cha out
of tro-lan the wel-gre ach."



boo vii.

    of the sin com bet aia and hec, and of the
    bur of the dea, and the bui of a wal abo the
    ach shi.

so spa glo hec and iss fro the gat, and wit him wen
his bro ale; and bot wer eag of sou for fig and
bat. eve as god giv to lon sea fai win whe the hav
gro wea of bea the mai wit pol oar, and the lim are
for wit toi, eve so app the to the lon tro.

now whe the god bri-eye ath mar the mak hav of the
arg in the pre of bat, she dar dow fro the cre of
oly to hol ili. but apo ros to mee her, for he beh her
fro per, and wou hav vic for the tro. so the twa met
eac the oth by the oak-tre. to her spa fir kin apo son of
zeu: "why now art tho com thu eag fro oly, tho dau of
gre zeu, and why hat thy hig hea sen the? sur it is to giv
the dan une vic in bat! see tho has no mer on the
tro, tha per. but if tho wou hea to me--and it wer
far bet so--let us now sta bat and war for the day; her
sha the fig aga, til the rea the goa of ili, sin thu it
see goo to you hea, god imm, to lay was thi
cit."

and the god bri-eye ath mad ans to him: "so be it,
far-dar; in thi min i lik cam fro oly to the mid of
tro and ach. but com, how thi tho to sta the bat of
the war?"

and kin apo, son of zeu, mad ans to her: "let us aro the
sta spi of hor-tam hec, if so be he wil cha som
one of the dan in sin fig man to man to mee him in dea
com. so sha the bro-gre ach be jea and sti up one
to fig sin wit goo hec." so spa he and the bri-eye
god ath dis not. now hel pri's dea son und
in spi the res tha the god in cou had app; and he
wen to hec and sto bes him, and spa a wor to him: "hec
son of pri, pee of zeu in cou, wou tho now hea at all
to me? for i am thy bro. mak the oth tro sit, and all the
ach, and thy cha him tha is bes of the ach to mee
the man to man in dea com. it is not yet thy des to die and
mee thy doo; for thu hea i the voi of the god tha are fro
eve." so sai he, and hec rej gre to hea his
say, and wen int the mid and ref the bat of the
tro wit his spe gra by the mid; and the all sat the
dow: and aga mad the wel-gre ach sit. and ath
wit and apo of the sil bow, in the lik of vul bir,
sat the upo a tal oak hol to aeg-bea fat zeu, rej
in the war; and the ran of all of the sat clo tog,
bri wit shi and plu and spe. eve as the spr
acr the mai the rip of the wes win new ris, and the sea
gro bla ben it, so sat the ran of ach and tro upo
the pla. and hec spa bet bot hos: "hea to me, tro
and wel-gre ach, tha i may spe wha my min wit my
bre bid me. our oat of tru kro' son, ent on hig,
acc not; but evi is his int and ord for bot our
hos, unt eit ye tak fai-tow tro or you be
van bes you sea shi. but in the mid of you are the
chi of all the ach; the now let the man who hea
bid him fig wit me com hit fro amo you all to be you
cha aga goo hec. and thi dec i, and be zeu our
wit the; if tha man sla me wit the lon-edg swo, let him
spo me of my arm and bea it to the hol shi, but giv bac my
bod to my hom, tha tro and tro' wiv may giv me my due of
bur in my dea. but if i sla him and apo vou me glo, i
wil spo him of his arm and bea it to hol ili and han it upo
the tem of far-dar apo, but his cor wil i ren bac to
the wel-dec shi, tha the flo-hai ach may ent him,
and bui him a bar bes wid hel. so sha one say eve of
men tha be lat bor, as he sai in his ben shi ove the
win-dar sea: 'thi is the bar of a man tha die in day of old, a
cha who glo hec sle.' so sha a man say her, and
thi my glo sha nev die."

so spa he and the all wer sil and hel the pea; to den him
the wer ash, and fea to mee him. but at the las sto up
men and spa ami the and chi upb the, and gro
dee at hea: "ah me, vai thr, ye wom of ach and no mor
men, sur all thi sha be a sha, evi of evi, if no one of the
dan now goe to mee hec. nay, tur ye all to ear and wat,
sit the eac man dis, hel ing; aga him
wil i mys arr me; and fro on hig the thr of vic are
gui of the imm god."

so spa he and don his fai arm. and now, o men, had the end
of lif app for the at hec's han, see he was str far,
but tha the pri of the ach sta up and cau the. and
atr' son him, wid-rul aga, too him by his rig han
and spa a wor and cal upo his nam: "tho doe mad, men
fos of zeu; yet is it no tim for thi thy mad. dra bac,
tho it be wit pai, nor thi for con's sak to fig wit
one bet tha tho, wit hec pri's son, who oth bes the
abh. yea, thi man eve ach dre to mee in bat, whe
is the war's glo; and ach is bet far tha tho. go
the now and sit ami the com of thy fel; aga him sha
the ach put for ano cha. fea tho he be and
ins of tur, i wee tha he sha be fai to res his kne, if
he esc fro the fur of war and ter fra."

so spa the her and per his bro's hea wit jus cou;
and he obe. so his squ the wit gla too his arm fro
his sho; and nes sto up and spa ami the arg: "fie upo
it, ver sor lam com on the lan of ach. ver old
pel dri of cha wou gro sor, tha goo cou of
the myr and ora, who ers que me in his hou, and
rej gre, inq of the lin and bir of all the arg.
if he hea now of tho tha all wer cow bef hec, the
wou he lif his han to the imm, ins pra tha his
sou mig dep fro his lim dow to the hou of had. wou to
god i wer thu you and my str wer sou; the wou hec of
the gla hel soo fin his com. but of tho of you tha be
chi of the hos of the ach, yet des no man of goo
hea to mee hec fac to fac." so the old man upb the, and
the sto up nin in all. far fir aro aga kin of men, and
aft him ros tyd' son sta dio, and aft the the aia
clo wit imp mig, and aft the ido and ido'
bro-in-arm mer, pee of eny sla of men, and aft the
eur eua's glo son; and up ros tho and's son and
goo ody. so all the wer fai to fig wit goo hec. and
amo the spa aga kni nes of ger: "now cas ye the lot
fro the fir unt the las, for him tha sha be cho: for he sha
in tru pro the wel-gre ach, yea and he sha hav pro
of his own sou, if he esc fro the fur of war and ter fra."

so sai he, and the mar eac man his lot and cas the in the hel
of aga atr' son; and the hos pra and lif up the han
to the god. and thu wou one say, loo up to wid hea: "o
fat zeu, vou tha the lot fal upo aia or tyd' son, or
els on the kin of myk ric in gol."

so spa the, and kni nes of ger sho the hel, and
the lea for the lot tha the des, eve the lot of aia.
and aia saw and kne the tok upo the lot, and rej in hea, and
spa: "my fri, ver the lot is min, yea and mys am gla at
hea, bec i dee tha i sha van goo hec. but com now,
whi i clo me in my arm of bat, pra ye the whi to kro'
son kin zeu, in sil to you, tha the tro hea you
not--nay rat, ope if ye wil, for we hav no fea of any man
soe. for non by for sha cha me, he wil me unw,
nei by ski; see i hop tha not so ski-les, eit, was i
bor in sal nor nur."

so sai he, and the pra to kro' son, kin zeu; and thu wou
one spe, loo up to wid hea: "o fat zeu tha rul fro
ida, mos glo, mos gre, vou to aia vic and the
win of gre glo. but if tho so lov hec ind, and car
for him, gra unt eit equ pro and ren."

so sai the, whi aia arr him in fla bro. and whe he had
now clo upo his fle all his arm, the mar he as hug are
com for, whe he goe to bat ami her who kro' son
set to fig in fur of hea-con str. so ros up hug
aia, bul of the ach, wit a smi on his gri fac: and wen
wit lon str of his fee ben him, sha his far-sha
spe. the mor the arg rej to loo upo him, but sor
tre cam upo the tro, on the lim of eve man, and hec's
own hea bea wit his bre. but in no wis cou he now fle nor
shr bac int the thr of the hos, see he had cha him to
bat. and aia cam nea bea his tow-lik shi of bro, wit
sev ox-hid, and sto nea to hec, and spa to him thr:
"hec, now ver sha tho wel kno, man to man, wha man
of pri the dan lik hav amo the, eve aft ach,
ren of men, the lio-hea. but he ami his bea sea shi
lie in sor wra wit aga she of the hos; yet are we suc
as to fac the, yea and man of us. but mak tho beg of war and
bat."

and gre hec of the gla hel ans him: "aia of the see of
zeu, son of tel, chi of the hos, tem not tho me lik som
pun boy or wom tha kno not dee of bat. but i wel kno war
and sla. to rig kno i, to lef kno i the wie of my
tou tar; the i dee is sta sol. and i kno how to
cha int the mel of fle cha, and how in clo bat to
joi in fur are' dan. how, i hav no min to smi the,
bei suc an one as tho art, by spy the una; but rat
ope, if per i may hit the."

he spa, and poi his far-sha spe, and hur and smo aia'
dre shi of sev hid upo the utt bro, the eig
lay tha was the. thr six fol wen the stu bro
cle, but in the sev hid it sta. the hea-spr aia
hur nex his far-sha spe, and smo upo the cir of the
shi of pri's son. thr the bri shi pas the vio
spe, and thr the cur wro cor pre it on; and
str for bes the fla the spe ren his dou; but he
swe asi and esc bla dea. the bot tog wit the
han plu for the lon spe and fel to lik rav lio or
wil boa who mig is now fee. the pri's son smo the
shi's mid wit his dar, but the bro bra not thr, for the
poi tur bac; but aia lea on him and pie his buc, and
str thr wen the spe and sta him in his ons, and
cle its way unt his nec, so tha the dar blo gus up. yet eve
the did not hec of the gla hel cea fro fig, but yie
gro and wit sto han sei a sto lyi upo the pla, bla
and rug and gre; the hur he and smo aia' dre shi
of sev ox-hid in the mid upo the bos, and the bro
res. nex aia lif a far gre sto, and swu and hur
it, put mig imm the. so smo he the buc and
bur it inw wit the roc lik unt a mil, and bea dow his
kne; and he was str upo his bac, pre int his shi; but
apo str rai him up. and now had the bee smi han to
han wit swo, but tha the her, mes of god and men,
cam, one fro the tro, one fro the mai-cla ach, eve
tal and ida, bot men dis. bet the two hel the
the sta, and her ida spa a wor, bei ski in wis
cou: "fig ye no mor, dea son, nei do bat; see zeu
the clo-gat lov you bot, and bot are men of war; tha ver
kno we all. but nig alr is upo us: it is wel wit to obe the
hes [beh] of nig."

the tel aia ans and sai to him: "ida, bid ye hec
to spe tho wor; of his own sel he cha to com all our
bes. let him be fir, and i wil sur fol as he sai."

the gre hec of the gla hel sai to him: "aia, see god
gav the sta and mig and wis, and wit the spe tho art
exc abo all the ach, let us now cea fro com and
bat for the day; but her wil we fig unt god jud bet
as, giv to one of us the vic: but com, let us giv eac the
oth fam gif, tha men may thu say, ach ali and tro:
'the, hav fou for sak of hea-con str, par aga
rec in fri.'"

so sai he, and gav him his sil-stu swo, wit sca and
wel-cut bal; and aia gav his bel bri wit pur. so the
par, and one wen to the ach hos, and one bet him to the
thr of tro. and the rej to beh him com to the ali
and sou, esc fro the fur of aia and his han una;
and the bro him to the cit sav bey the hop. and aia on
the sid the wel-gre ach bro to nob aga,
exu in his vic.

so whe the wer com unt the hut of atr, the did aga
kin of men sla the an ox, a mal of fiv yea old, for the mos
mig son of kro. thi the fla and mad rea, and div it
all, and min it cun, and pie it thr wit spi, and
roa it car, and dre all off aga. the as soo as the had
res fro the tas and had mad rea the mea, the beg the fea,
nor was the sou aug sti of the equ ban. and the her son
of atr, wid-rul aga, gav to aia sli of the chi's
ful len for his hon. and whe the had put fro the the des
of mea and dri, the fir the old man beg to wea the web of
cou, eve nes who red [cou] of old tim was pro mos
exc. he mad har amo the and sai: "son of atr and ye
oth pri of the ach, see tha man flo-hai ach
are dea, and kee are hat spi the dus blo abo fai-flo
ska, and the sou hav gon dow to the hou of had;
the it beh the to mak the bat of the ach cea wit
day; and we wil ass to whe hit the cor wit oxe and
mul; so let us bur the; and let us hea one bar abo the pyr,
rea it fro the pla for all ali; and the bui wit spe
hig tow, a bul for our shi and for our. in the mid
the let us mak gat wel com, tha thr the may be a way
for cha-dri. and wit let us dig a dee fos har by, to be
abo it and to hin hor and foo, les the bat of the lor
tro be hea on us her."

so spa he and all the chi gav ass. but mea the was in
the hig tow of ili an ass of the tro, fie, con,
bes pri's gat. to the dis ant beg to mak har:
"hea to me, tro and dar and all, tha i may tel you
tha my sou wit my bre com me. lo, go to now, let us giv
hel of arg and the wea wit her for the son of atr to tak
awa. now fig we in gui aga the oat of fai; the is
the no pro for us tha i hop to see ful, unl we do thu."

so spa he and sat him dow; and the sto up amo the nob
ale, lor of hel bea-hai; he mad him ans and spa
win wor: "ant, the wor fro the are no lon to my
ple; yet tho has it in the to dev oth say mor
exc tha thi. but if ind tho say thi in ear, the
ver the god the hav des thy wit. but i wil spe
for ami the hor-tam tro, and dec out; my wif wil
i not giv bac; but the wea i bro fro arg to our hom, all
tha i hav a min to giv, and add mor of min own sub."

so spa he and sat him dow, and the sto up amo the pri of
the see of dar, the pee of god in cou; he mad har to
the, and sai: "hea to me, tro and dar and all, tha
i may tel you tha my sou wit my bre com me. now eat you
sup thr the cit as of old, and tak tho to kee wat,
and be wak eve man. and at daw let ida far to the hol
shi to tel to atr' son aga and men the say of
ale, for who sak str is com abo: and lik to ask
the thi wis wor, whe the are min to ref fro noi war
til we hav bur our dea; aft wil we fig aga, til
hea par us and giv one or oth vic."

so spa he, and the hea dil to him and obe: and at
daw ida far to the hol shi. he fou the dan in ass,
the men of are' com, bes the ste of aga's shi; and so
the lou-voi her sto in the mid and sai unt the:
"atr and ye oth pri of the ach, pri and all the nob
tro bad me tel you-if per it mig fin fav and
acc wit you-the say of ale, for who sak str hat
com abo. the wea tha ale bro in his hol shi to
tro-wou he had per fir!-all tha he hat a min to giv, and
to add mor the of his sub. but the wed wif of glo
men he sai he wil not giv; yet ver the tro bid him do
it. mor the bad me ask thi thi of you; whe ye are min
to ref fro noi war unt we hav bur our dea; aft wil
we fig aga, til hea par us and giv one or oth vic."

so sai he and the all kep sil and wer sti. but at the las
spa dio of the lou war-cry in the mid: "let no man now
acc ale' sub, nei hel's sel; kno is it, eve to
him tha hat no wit at all, how tha the iss of des han
alr ove the tro."

so spa he, and all the son of the ach sho, app the
say of hor-tam dio. and the lor aga spa to
ida: "ida, thy tho hea the say of the ach, how
the ans the; and the lik see goo to me. but as con the
dea, i gru you not to bur the; for dea cor is the no
sti; whe the onc are dea, of the swi pro of fir.
and for the oat let zeu be wit, the lou-thu lor of
her."

so say he lif up his sce in the sig of all the god, and
ida dep bac to hol ili. now tro and dar sat in
ass, gat all tog to wai til ida sho com; and he
cam and sto in the mid and dec his mes. the the mad
the rea ver swi for eit tas, som to bri the dea, and
som to see for woo. and on the par the arg has fro the
wel-dec shi, som to bri the dea and som to see for woo.

now the sun was new bea on the fie as he cli hea fro
the dee str of gen-flo oce, whe bot sid met tog.
the was it a har mat to kno eac man aga; but the was the
wit wat cle of clo gor, and wit she of hot tea lif
the upo the wai. but gre pri bad the not wai alo; so in
sil hea the the cor on the pyr, str at hea; and whe
the had bur the wit fir dep to hol ili. and in lik
man on the sid the wel-gre ach hea the cor on the
pyr, str at hea, and whe the had bur the wit fir
dep to the hol shi.

and whe day was not yet, but sti twi of nig, the was the
cho fol of the ach gat tog aro the pyr, and mad
one bar abo it, rea it fro the pla for all ali; and
the bui the a wal and lof tow, a bul for the shi
and for the. in the mid the mad the gat wel-com,
tha thr the mig be a way for cha-dri. and wit the
dug a dee fos bes it, bro and gre, and pla a pal
the.

thu toi the flo-hai ach: and the god sat by zeu, the
lor of lig, and mar at the gre wor of the mai-cla
ach. and pos sha of ear spa fir to the: "o fat
zeu, is the any man thr the bou ear tha wil any mor
dec to the imm his min and cou? see tho not how the
flo-hai ach hav now aga bui the a wal bef the
shi, and dra a fos aro it, but gav not exc hec to
the god? ver the fam the sha rea as far as the daw
spr, and men wil for the wal tha i and pho apo bui
wit tra for the her lao."

and zeu the clo-gat sai to him, sor tro: "out on it,
far-swa sha of ear, for thi thi tho say. wel mig som
oth god fea thi dev, one tha wer far fee tha tho in the
mig of his han: but thi sha be the fam as far as the daw
spr. go to now, her whe the flo-hai ach be
dep upo the shi to the dea nat lan, the bur tho
thi wal asu and sca it all int the sea, and cov the gre
sea-bea ove wit san aga, tha the gre wal of the ach be
bro to nau."



boo vii.

    how zeu bet him of his pro to ave ach'
    wro on aga; and the bad the god ref fro
    war, and gav vic to the tro.

now daw the saf-rob was spr ove all the ear, and zeu
who joy is in the thu let cal an ass of the god upo the
top pea of man-rid oly, and him mad har to the
and all the god gav ear: "hea to me, all god and all ye
god, tha i may tel you wha my hea wit my bre com
me. one thi let non ess, be it god or be it god, to wit, to
thw my say; app ye it all tog, tha wit all spe i may
acc the thi. who i sha per min to go, apa
fro the god, to suc tro or dan, cha in no see
wis sha he ret to oly, or i wil tak and cas him int mis
tar, rig far awa, whe is the dee gul ben the ear;
the are the gat of iro and thr of bro, as far ben had
as hea is hig abo the ear: the sha he kno how far i am
mig of all god. go to now, ye god, mak tri tha ye all may
kno. fas ye a rop of gol fro hea, and all ye god lay hol
the and all god; yet cou ye not dra fro hea to ear
zeu, cou sup, not tho ye toi sor. but onc i lik
wer min to dra wit all my hea, the sho i dra you up wit
ver ear and sea wit. the wou i bin the rop abo a
pin of oly, and so sho all tho thi be hun in air. by
so muc am i bey god and bey men."

so say he let har to his cha his bro-sho hor, fle of
foo, wit flo man of gol; and him cla him wit gol upo
his fle, and gra the whi of gol, wel wro, and mou upo
his car, and las the hor to sta the; the not lot spe on
bet ear and sta hea. so far he to man-fou ida,
mot of wil bea, eve unt gar, whe is his dem and
fra alt. the did the fat of men and god sta his hor,
and unl the fro the car, and cas thi mis abo the; and
him sat on the mou-top rej in his glo, to beh the
cit of the tro and shi of the ach.

now the flo-hai ach too mea has amo the hut and
the arr the. lik the tro on the sid arm
the thr the tow--a sma hos, yet for all tha wer the
eag to fig in bat, of for nee, for the chi's sak
and the wiv'. and the gat wer ope wid and the hos iss
for, foo and hor; and mig din aro.

so whe the wer met tog and com unt one spo, the cla the
tar and spe and fur of bro-cla war; the bos shi
pre eac on eac, and mig din aro. the wer hea the voi of
gro and the voi of tri tog of the sla and the sla,
and the ear str wit blo.

now whi it yet was mor and the div day wax, so lon fro eit
sid lig the dar ama and the peo fel. but whe the sun
bes mid-hea, the did the fat bal his gol sca, and
put the two fat of dea tha lay men at the len, one for
hor-tam tro, one for mai-cla ach; and he too the
sca-yar by the mid and lif it, and the ach' day of des
san dow. so lay the ach' fat on the bou ear, and the
tro' fat wer lif up tow wid hea. and the god thu
alo fro ida, and sen his bla fla ami the hos of the
ach; and the saw and wer ast, and pal fea gat hol upo
all.

the had ido no hea to sta, nei aga, nei sto
the twa aia, men of are' com. onl nes of ger sto
his gro, he the war of the ach; nei he of pur, but
his hor was for, whi nob ale, bea-hai hel's
lor, had smi wit an arr upo the top of the cre whe the
for hai of hor gro upo the sku; and the is the mos
dea spo. so the hor lea up in ang and the arr san int
his bra, and he bro con on the ste as he wri upo the
dar. whi the old man lea for and wit his swo beg to hew the
tra, cam hec's fle hor thr the tum, bea a bol
cha, eve hec. and now had the old man los his lif, but
tha dio of the lou war-cry was swi to mar. ter sho
he, sum ody: "hea-bor son of lae, ody of man
wil, whi fle tho wit thy bac tur, lik a cow in the
thr? bew les as tho fle one pla a spe bet thy
sho. nay, sta thy gro, til we thr bac fro the old man
his fur foe."

so spa he, but muc-end nob ody hea him not, but
has by to the hol shi of the ach. yet tyd, tho
but one, min ami the fig in the for, and too his sta
bef the ste of the old man, nel' son, and spa to him win
wor, and sai: "old man, of a tru you war bes the har;
and thy for is aba, and old age is sor upo the, and thy squ
is but a wea, and thy ste are slo. com the, mou upo my
car, tha tho may see of wha sor are the ste of tro, wel
ski for fol or fle hit or thi ver fle acr
the pla, eve tho tha ers i too fro ain ins of fea.
thi let our squ ten, and the let us gui str aga the
hor-tam tro, tha eve hec may kno whe my spe als
rag in my han."

so sai he, and kni nes of ger dis not. the the two
squ ten nes's hor, eve sth the val and kin
eur: and the oth twa bot mou upo dio' car. and
nes too int his han the shi rei, and las the hor; and
soo the dre nig hec. the tyd' son hur at him as he cha
str upo the: him mis he, but his squ tha dra his
cha, eni, hig-hea the' son, eve him as he hel the
rei, he smo upo the bre bes the nip. so he fel fro out
the car, and his fle-foo hor swe asi; and the his sou
and spi wer uns. the sor gri enc hec's sou for
sak of his cha. yet lef he him the lyi, tho he sor
for his com, and dra in que of a bol cha; and his hor
lac not lon a mas, for ano he fou iph' son, bol
arc, and him he mad mou beh his fle hor, and gav
the rei int his han.

the had des com and dee bey rem bee wro, and so
had the bee pen in ili lik lam, had not the fat of god and
men bee swi to mar. so he thu ter and dar his whi
lig and hur it bef dio' ste to ear; and the
aro a ter fla of sul bur, and the two hor wer
aff and cow ben the car. and the shi rei dro
fro nes's han, and he was afr at hea and spa to dio:
"com now tyd, tur bac thy who-hoo hor to fli: see
tho not tha vic fro zeu att not on the? now dot kro'
son vou glo to thi hec, for the day; her sha he
gra it us lik, if he wil. a man may not at all war off the wil
of zeu, not tho one be ver val; he ver is mig far."

the dio of the lou war-cry ans him: "yea ver, old man,
all thi tho say is acc unt rig. but thi is the sor gri
tha ent my hea and sou: hec som day sha say as he mak
har ami the tro: 'tyd bet him to the shi in fli
bef my fac.' so sha he boa--in tha day let the wid ear yaw
for me."

so spa he and tur the who-hoo hor to fli, bac thr
the tum; and the tro and hec wit won upr pou upo
the the dol dar. and ove him sho lou gre hec of
the gla hel: "tyd, the fle-hor dan wer won to
hon the wit the hig pla, and mea, and cup bri, but now
wil the dis the; tho art aft all no bet tha a wom.
beg, poo pup; not for my fli sha tho cli on our
tow, nei car our wiv awa upo thy shi; ere tha wil i
dea the thy fat."

so sai he, and tyd was of div min, whe to whe his
hor and fig him fac to fac. thr dou he in hea and sou,
and thr fro ida's mou thu zeu the lor of cou, and
gav to the tro a sig, the tur of the cou of bat. and
hec wit lou sho cal to the tro: "tro and lyk and
dar tha lov clo fig, be men, my fri, and bet you of
imp val. i per tha of goo wil kro vou me
vic and gre glo, and to the dan des. foo, tha
dev the wal wea and of non acc; the sha not wit
our fur, and lig sha our ste ove the del fos. but
whe i be onc com ami the hol shi, the be tho tak of
con fir, tha wit fir i may bur the shi and sla the men."

so spa he and sho to his ste, and sai: "xan, and tho
pod, and ait and goo lam, now pay me bac you ten,
eve the abu tha and, gre-hea eet's dau, set
bef you of hon-hea whe, and min win to dri at the
hea's bid. pur ye now and has, tha we may sei nes's
shi, the fam whe now rea unt hea, how tha it is of
gol thr, arm and all; and may sei mor fro
hor-tam dio' sho his ric dig bre tha
hep wro cun. cou we but tak the, the mig i hop
thi ver nig to mak the ach to emb on the fle shi."

and now had he bur the tri shi wit bla fir, but tha que
her put it in aga's hea him to bes him and swi
aro the ach. so he wen his way alo the hut and shi of the
ach, hol a gre clo of pur in his sta han, and
sto by ody' bla shi of mig bur, tha was in the mid,
so tha a voi cou be hea to eit end. the sho he in a
pie voi, and cal to the dan alo: "fie upo you, arg,
ye sor thi of sha, so bra in sem! whi are gon our
boa whe we sai tha we wer bra, the boa ye utt
vai whe in lem, as ye ate you fil of fle of
tal-hor oxe and dra gob cro wit win, and sai tha
eve man sho sta in war to fac fiv yea ten tro?
yet now can we not mat one, eve thi hec tha ano wil bur our
shi wit fla of fir. o fat zeu, did eve tho bli wit suc
a bli any mig kin, and rob him of gre glo? nay, zeu, thi
hop ful tho me; suf tha we our at lea fle and esc,
nei suf tha the ach be thu van of the tro."

so spa he, and the fat had pit on him as he wep, and vou
him tha his fol sho be sav and per not. for sen he an
eag--sur sig amo win fow--hol in his cla a faw, the
you of a fle hin; bes the bea alt of zeu he let fal
the faw, whe the ach did sac unt zeu lor of all
ora. so whe the saw tha the bir was com fro zeu, the spr
the mor upo the tro and bet the of the joy of bat.

now cou no man of the dan, for all the wer ver man, boa tha
he bef tyd' son had gui his fle hor for, and dri the
acr the tre and fou man to man; fir by far was tyd to
sla a war of the tro in ful arr, eve age son of
phr. now he had tur his ste to fle; but as he whe the
oth plu the spe int his bac bet his sho, and dra
it thr his bre. so fel he fro his cha, and his arm
cla upo him.

and aft him cam atr' son, eve aga and men, and aft
the the aia clo upo wit imp val, and aft the
ido and ido' bro in arm mer, pee of eny
sla of men, and aft the eur, eua's glo son. and
nin cam teu, str his bac-ben bow, and too his sta
ben the shi of aia son of tel. and so aia wou ste
wit the shi, and teu wou spy his cha; and whe he had
sho and smi one in the thr, the fel suc an one and gav up
the gho, and teu wou ret, and as a chi ben his mot,
so gat he him to aia; who hid him wit the shi shi.

and aga kin of men rej to beh him mak hav wit his
sta bow of the bat of the tro, and he cam and sto by
his sid and spa to him, say: "teu, dea hea, tho son of
tel, pri of the hos, sho on in thi wis, if per tho
may be fou the sal of the dan and glo of thy fat
tel."

and nob teu mad ans and sai to him: "mos nob son of
atr, why urg tho me tha mys am eag? ver wit suc
str as is in me for i not, but eve sin we dra the tow
ili i wat wit my bow to sla the foe. eig lon-bar arr
hav i now spe, and all are bur in the fle of you men swi in
bat; onl thi mad dog can i not smi."

he sai, and sho ano arr fro the str rig aga hec;
and his hea was fai to smi him. yet mis he onc aga, for
apo tur the dar awa; but arc, hec's bol
cha, he smo on the bre bes the nip as he has int
bat: so he fel fro his car and his fle-foo hor swe
asi; and the his sou and spi wer uns. the sor gri
enc hec's sou for his cha's sak; yet lef he him,
tho he sor for his com, and bad keb his own bro,
bei har by, tak the cha rei; and he hea and dis not.
and him he lea to ear fro the res car, wit a ter
sho; and in his han he cau a sto, and mad rig at teu, and
his hea bad him smi him. now teu had plu for fro his
qui a kee arr, and lai it on the str; but eve as he dre it
bac, hec of the gla hel smo him wit the jag sto, as he
aim eag aga him, eve bes his sho, whe the
col-bon fen off nec and bre, and whe is the mos dea
spo; and he bra the bow, and his han fro the wri gre num,
and he sta fal upo his kne, and his bow dro fro his han.
but aia dis not his bro's fal, but ran and str acr
him and hid him wit his shi. the two tru com ben dow to
him, eve mek son of ech and goo ala, and bar him,
gro sor, to the hol shi. and onc aga the oly
aro the spi of the tro. so the dro the ach str
tow the dee fos, and ami the for wen hec exu in his
str. and eve as whe a hou beh wil boa or lio, wit swi
fee pur sna at him, at fla or but, and wat for
him as he whe, so hec pre har on the flo-hai
ach, sla eve the hin, and the fle on. but whe the
wer pas in fli thr pal and fos, and man wer fal
ben the tro' han, the hal the and tar bes the
shi, cal one upo ano, and lif up the han to all the
god pra eac one ins. but hec whe rou his
bea-man ste thi way and tha, and his eye wer as the eye
of gor or are ban of mor.

now at the sig of the the whi-arm god her had com,
and ano spa win wor to ath: "out on it, tho chi of
aeg-bea zeu, sha not we twa any mor tak tho for the
dan tha per, if onl for thi las tim? now wil the fil up
the mea of evi des and per by one man's ons; see
tha he is fur now bey end, thi hec son of pri, and
ver hat wro man a dee of ill."

and the bri-eye god ath mad ans to her, "yea in goo
soo, may thi fel yie up str and lif, and per at the
arg' han in his nat lan; onl min own sir is fur, wit
no goo int, hea, eve sin, the foi of my pur. but
now mak tho rea our who-hoo hor, whi i ent int the
pal of aeg-bea zeu and gir me in my arm for bat, tha i
may see if pri's son, hec of the gla hel, sha be gla at
the app of us twa ami the hig of the bat. sur sha
man a tro lik glu dog and bir wit fat and fle, fal
dea at the shi of the ach."

so sai she, and the whi-arm god her dis not. but whe
fat zeu beh fro ida, he was sor wro, and spe iri
gol-win to bea a mes: "go thy way, fle iri, tur the
bac, nei suf the to fac me; for in no hap wis sha we joi
in com. for thu wil i dec, and eve so sha the ful be;
i wil mai the fle hor in the cha, and the wil i hur out
fro the car, and wil bre in pie the cha; nei wit the
cou of ten yea sha the hea the of the wou the thu
sha tea; tha the bri-eye one may kno the end whe she str
aga her fat. but wit her hav i not so gre ind nor
wra: see it eve is her won to thw me, wha'er i hav
dec."

so sai he, and whi-foo iri aro to bea the mes, and
dep fro the mou of ida unt hig oly. and eve at the
ent of the gat of oly man-fol she met the and sta
the, and tol the the say of zeu.

and fat zeu dra fro ida his fai-whe cha and hor unt
oly, and cam unt the ses of the god. for him als the nob
sha of ear uny the ste, and set the car upo the sta, and
spr a clo the; and far-see zeu him sat upo his
gol thr, and ben his fee gre oly qua. onl ath
and her sat apa fro zeu, and spa no wor to him nei
que him. but he was war the in his hea, and sai, "why are
ye thu vex, ath and her? sur ye are not wea of mak
hav in glo bat of the tro, for who ye che bit
hat! how, see tha my mig is so gre and my han
inv, all the god tha are in oly cou not tur me: and for
you twa, tre ers gat hol upo you bri lim ere tha ye
beh war and war's fel dee. for thu wil i dec, and eve so
had the ful bee--nev had ye, onc smi wit the
thu, far on you cha bac unt oly whe is the
hab of the imm."

so spa he, and ath and her mur, tha wer sit by him and
dev ill for the tro. now ath hel her pea, and sai not
any, for wra at fat zeu, and fie ang gat hol upo her;
but her's hea con not her ang, and she spa: "mos dre son
of kro, wha wor is thi tho has sai? wel kno we, eve we, tha
thy mig is no wis pun; yet sti hav we pit for the dan
spe, tha now sha per and fil up the mea of gri
fat."

and zeu the clo-gat ans and sai: "at mor sha tho
beh mos mig kro, if tho wil hav it so, o her, ox-eye
que, mak yet mor hav of the vas arm of arg spe; for
hea hec sha not ref fro bat til tha pel' son
fle of foo hav ari bes the shi, tha day whe the sha
fig ami the ste in mos gri str, aro pat fal.
suc is the doo of hea. and for thi ang rec i not, not eve
tho tho go to the net bou of ear and sea, whe sit
iap and kro and hav no joy in the bea of hyp the sun-god,
nei in any bre, but dee tar is rou abo the. tho
tho sho wan til tho com eve thi, yet rec i not of thy
vex, see the is no thi mor una tha tho."

so sai he, but whi-arm her spa him no wor. and the sun's bri
lig dro int oce, dra bla nig acr ear the
gra-giv. aga the tro' wil day dep, but wel,
thr pra for, to the ach cam dow the mur nig.

now glo hec mad an ass of the tro, tak the apa
fro the shi, bes the edd riv, in an ope spa whe was
fou a spo cle of dea. and the cam dow fro the cha to
the gro to hea the wor tha hec, dea unt zeu, pro. he
in his han hel his spe ele cub lon; bef his fac gle
the spe of bro, and a rin of gol ran rou abo it. the
he lea and spa to the tro, say: "hea to me, tro and
dar and all. i tho but now to mak hav of the shi and
all the ach and dep bac aga to win ili; but dus cam too
soo, and tha in chi hat now sav the arg and the shi bes
the bea of the sea. so let us now yie to bla nig, and mak our
sup rea; uny ye fro the cha you fai-man hor, and
set fod bes the. and fro the cit bri kin and goo she
wit spe; and pro you wit hon-hea win, and cor fro you
hou, and gat muc woo wit, tha all nig lon unt
ear-spr daw we may bur man fir, and the gle may rea to
hea; les per eve by nig the flo-hai ach str
to tak fli ove the bro bac of the sea. ver mus the not
emb upo the shi unv, at eas: but see ye tha man a one of
the hav a wou to nur eve at hom, bei str wit arr or
kee-poi spe as he lea upo his shi; tha so man ano man
may dre to wag dol war on the hor-tam men of tro. and let
the her dea to zeu pro thr the cit tha you mai
and old men of hoa hea cam rou the cit on the bat
bui of the god; and let the wom fol bur a gre fir eac in
her hal; and let the be a sur wat set, les an amb ent the
cit whe the hos is abs. how for the nig wil we gua our
own sel, and at mor by day, arr in our arm, let us awa
kee bat at the hol shi. i wil kno whe tyd' son
sta dio sha thr me fro the shi bac to the wal, or i
sha lay him low wit my spe and bea awa his gor spo. to-mor
sha he pro his val, whe he can abi the ons of my
spe. wou tha i wer imm and age all my day and hon
lik as ath is hon and apo, so sur as thi day bri
the arg ill."

so hec mad har, and the tro cla app. and the
loo the swe ste fro the yok, and tet the wit
tho, eac man bes his cha; and fro the cit the bro kin
and goo she wit spe, and pro the wit hon-hea win
and cor fro the hou, and gat muc woo wit. and fro the
pla the win bar int hea the swe sav. but the wit hig
hop sat the all nig alo the hig of the bat, and the
wat bur in mul. eve as whe in hea the sta abo
the bri moo shi cle to see, whe the air is win, and all
the pea app and the tal hea and gla, and fro hea
bre ope the inf air, and all sta are see, and the
she's hea is gla; eve in lik mul bet the shi and
the str of xan app the wat tha the tro kin
in fro of ili. a tho fir bur in the pla and by the sid
of eac sat fif in the gle of bla fir. and the hor cha
whi bar and spe, and sta by the cha wai for the
thr daw.



boo ix.

    how aga sen an emb to ach, bes him
    to be app; and how ach den him.

thu kep the tro wat; but the ach wer hol of hea-sen
pan, han of pal fea, and all the bes wer str to
the hea wit gri int. lik as two win sti up the mai,
the hom of fis, eve the nor win and the wes win tha blo fro
thr, com sud; and the dar bil str lif up its
cre and cas muc tan out alo the sea; eve so was the
ach' spi tro in the bre.

but atr was str to the hea wit sor gri, and wen abo
bid the cle-voi her sum eve man by nam to the
ass, but not to sho alo; and him he toi ami the
for. so the sat sor in ass, and aga sto up
wee lik unt a fou of dar wat tha fro a bee cli
pou dow its bla str; eve so wit dee gro he spa ami
the arg and sai: "my fri, lea and cap of the arg,
zeu son of kro hat bou me wit mig in gri bli of
sou; har of hea is he, for tha ere he pro and gav his
ple tha not til i had lai was wel-wal ili sho i dep,
but now hat pla a cru wil, and bid me ret in dis to
arg wit the los of man of my fol. suc mes is the goo
ple of mos mig zeu, tha hat lai low the hea of man
cit, yea and sha lay low; for his is hig pow. so com, eve
as i sha bid let us all obe; let us fle wit our shi to our dea
nat lan, for now sha we nev tak wid-way tro."

so sai he, and the all hel the pea and kep sil. lon tim
wer the son of the ach voi for gri, but at the las
dio of the lou war-cry spa ami the and sai: "atr: wit
the fir in thy fol wil i con, whe it is jus, o kin, eve
in the ass; be not tho wro the. my val did tho bla
in chi ami the dan, and sai tha i was no man of war but a
cow; and all thi kno the arg bot you and old. but the son of
cro-cou kro hat end the but by hal; he gra
the to hav the hon of the sce abo all men, but val he gav
the not, whe is hig pow. sir, dee tho tha the son of
the ach are thu ind cow and wea as tho say? if
thi own hea be set on dep, go thy way; the way is bef the,
and thy shi sta bes the sea, eve the gre mul tha
fol the fro myk. but all the oth flo-hai ach
wil tar her unt we lay was tro. nay, let the too fle on the
shi to the dea nat lan; yet wil we twa, eve i and
sth, fig til we att the goa of ili; for in god's nam are
we com."

so sai he, and all the son of the ach sho alo, app
the say of hor-tam dio. the kni nes aro and sai
ami the: "tyd, in bat art tho pas mig, and in cou
art tho bes amo thi equ in yea; non of all the ach wil
mak lig of thy wor nor gai it. now let us yie to bla nig
and mak rea our mea; and let the sen bes the sev
alo the dee-del fos wit the wal. thi cha giv i to the
you men; and tho, atr, lea the the way, for tho art the mos
roy. spr tho a fea for the cou; tha is thy pla and
see for the. thy hut are ful of win tha the shi of the
ach bri the by day fro thr acr the wid sea; all
ent is for the, bei kin ove man. in the gat of
man sha tho lis to him tha dev the mos exc cou;
sor nee hav all the ach of suc as is goo and pru, bec
har by the shi our foe are bur the wat-fir in mul;
wha man can rej the? thi nig sha eit des or sav
the hos."

so sai he, and the gla hea to him and obe. for sal
the sen in the har. sev wer the cap of the
sen, and wit eac wen fiv you men bea the lon
spe in the han; and the too pos mid bet fos and wal,
and kin a fir and mad rea eac man his mea.

the atr gat the cou of the ach, and led the to
his hut, and spr bef the an abu fea. so the put for
the han to the goo che tha lay bef the. and whe the had
put awa fro the the des of mea and dri, the the old man fir
beg to wea his cou, eve nes, who red of old tim was
app the bes. he spa to the and sai: "mos nob son of atr,
aga kin of men, in thy nam wil i end and wit thy nam beg,
bec tho art kin ove man hos, and to thy han zeu hat
ent sce and law, tha tho may tak cou for thy fol.
the the mor tha any it beh bot to spe and hea, and
to acc wha ano tha tho may say. no oth man sha hav a
mor exc tho tha thi tha i bea in min fro old tim eve
unt now, sin the day whe tho, o hea-spr kin, did go and
tak the dam bri fro ang ach' hut by no con of our.
nay, i rig hea dis the; but tho yie to thy pro
spi, and dis a man of val who eve the imm
hon; for tho did tak and kee fro him his mee of val.
sti let us eve now tak tho how we may app him and per
him wit gif of fri and kin wor."

and aga kin of men ans and sai to him: "old sir, in no
fal wis has tho acc my fol. foo was i, i mys den it not.
wor man hos is he who zeu lov in his hea, eve as now he
hon thi man and des the hos of the ach. but see i
was a foo in tha i yie to my sor pas, i wil mak ame and
giv a rec bey tel. in the mid of you all i wil nam
the exc gif; sev tri unt of fir, and ten tal of
gol and twe gle cal, and twe sta hor, win
in the rac, tha hav tak pri by the spe. no lac wer
tha man who sub wer as gre as the pri my who-hoo
ste hav bor me off. and sev wom wil i giv, ski in
exc han, les who i cho me fro the spo the day
tha he him too sta les, sur wom in bea.
the wil i giv him, and wit the sha be she who ers i too fro
him, eve the dau of bri. all the thi sha be set
str bef him; and if her the god gra us to lay was
the gre cit of pri, the let him ent in whe we ach be
div the spo, and lad his shi ful of gol and bro, and
him cho twe tro wom, the fai tha the be aft
hel of arg. and if we win to the ric of lan, eve ach
arg, he sha be my son and i wil hol him in lik hon wit
ore, my str boy tha is nur in all abu. thr
dau are min in my wel-bui hal, chr and lao and
iph; let him tak of the whi he wil, wit gif of woo,
to pel' hou; and i wil add a gre dow suc as no man eve yet
gav wit his dau. and sev wel-peo cit wil i giv him,
kar and eno and gra hir and hol phe and ant dee in
mea, and fai aip and ped lan of vin. and all are nig to
the sal sea, on the utt bor of san pyl; the dwe men
abo in flo and kin, men tha sha wor him lik a god wit
gif, and ben his swa ful his pro ord. all thi
wil i acc so he but cea fro wra. let him yie; had i
wee is not to be sof nei ove, and the is he
hat of all god to mor. yea, let him be rul by me,
ina as i am mor roy and avo me to be the eld in yea."

the kni nes of ger ans and sai: "mos nob son of
atr, aga kin of men, now are the gif not lig to be
est tha tho off kin ach. com the, let us spe
for pic men to go wit all has to the hut of pel' son
ach. lo now, who i app let the con. fir let
pho dea to zeu lea the way, and aft him gre aia and nob
ody; and for her let odi and eur be the com.
and now bri wat for our han, and bid kee hol sil, tha we
may pra unt zeu the son of kro, if per he wil hav mer
upo us."

so sai he, and spa wor tha wer wel-ple unt all. for
the her pou wat on the han, and the you men cro the
bow wit dri and gav eac man his por aft the had pou the
lib in the cup. and whe the had mad lib and dru as the
hea des, the iss for fro the hut of aga son of
atr. and kni nes of ger gav the ful cha, wit man
a gla to eac, and chi to ody, how the sho ess to
pre on pel' nob son.

so the twa wen alo the sho of the lou-sou sea, mak
ins pra to the ear-emb, the sha of the ear, tha the
mig wit eas pre on aia' gre hea. so the cam to the
hut and shi of the myr, and fou the kin tak his
ple of a lou lyr, fai, of cur wor, wit a sil cro-bar
upo it. the he was del his sou, and sin the glo of
her. and ove aga him sat pat alo in sil, wat
til aia sho cea fro sin. so the twa cam for, and
nob ody led the way, and the sto bef his fac; and ach
spr up ama wit the lyr in his han, and lef the sea whe he
was sit, and in lik man pat whe he beh the men aro.
the ach fle of foo gre the and sai: "wel; ver ye
are fri tha are com--sor ind is the nee--eve ye tha are
dea of the ach to me eve in my wra."

so spa nob ach and led the for, and mad the sit on
set and car of pur; and ano he spa to pat bei
nea: "bri for a gre bow, tho son of men; min
str dri, and pre eac man a cup, for dea of men are the
tha are und my roo."

the put the for the han to the goo che lyi bef the. and
whe the had put fro the the des of mea and dri, aia nod to
pho. but nob ody mar it, and fil a cup wit win and
ple ach: "hai, o ach! the fai fea lac we not eit
in the hut of aga son of atr nei now in thi; for fea
is the abu to our hea's des, but our tho is not for
mat of the del fea; nay, we beh ver sor des,
tho fos of zeu, and are afr. now is it in dou whe we
sav the ben shi or beh the per, if tho put not on thy
mig. nig unt shi and wal hav the hig-hea tro and fam
all pit the cam, and kin man fir thr the hos,
and wee tha the sha no mor be wit but wil fal on our bla
shi. and zeu son of kro she the sig upo the rig by
lig, and hec gre exu in his mig and rag
fur, tru in zeu, and rec not of god nor man, for mig
mad hat pos him. he pra bri daw to shi for wit
all spe, for he bat pas his wor to smi off fro the shi the
ens' top, and to fir the hul wit dev fla, and har
the to mak hav of the ach con by the smo. the
am i sor afr in my hea les the god ful his boa, and it
be fat for us to per her in tro-lan, far fro arg pas-lan
of hor. up the! if tho art min eve at the las to sav the
fai son of the ach fro the war-din of the tro. esc thy
gri wra; aga off the wor gif, so tho wil cea
fro ang. lo now, hea tho to me, and i wil tel the all the
gif tha in his hut aga pro the. but if aga be too
hat to thy hea, bot he and his gif, yet hav tho pit on all
the ach tha fai thr the hos; the sha hon the as
a god, for ver tho wil ear exc gre glo at the han.
yea now mig tho sla hec, for he wou com ver nea the in
his dea mad, bec he dee tha the is no man lik unt
him amo the dan tha the shi bro hit."

and ach fle of foo ans and sai unt him: "hea-spr
son of lae, ody of man wil, in ope mus i now dec
unt you my say, eve as i am min and as the ful the
sha be, tha ye may not sit bef me and coa thi way and tha. for
hat to me eve as the gat of hel is he tha hid one thi in
his hea and utt ano: but i wil spe wha mes bes.
not me, i wee, sha aga son of atr per, nor the oth
dan, see we wer to hav no tha for bat wit the foe
eve wit res. he tha abi at hom hat equ sha wit him
tha fig his bes, and in lik hon are hel bot the cow and
the bra; dea com ali to the unt and to him tha hat
toi lon. nei hav i any pro for tha i end tri of
sou, eve sta my lif in fig. eve as a hen bri her
unf chi eac mor as she win it, and wit her it
goe har, eve so i was won to wat out man a sle nig and
pas thr man blo day of bat, war wit fol for the
wom's sak. twe cit of men hav i lai was fro shi-boa,
and fro lan ele, thr dee-soi tro-lan; out of all the
too i man goo tre and wou bri and giv the all to
aga son of atr, and he sta beh ami the fle shi
wou tak the and por out som few but kee the mos. now som he
gav to be mee of hon to the pri and the kin, and the are
lef unt; onl fro me of all the ach too he my dar lad
and kee her. but why mus the arg mak war on the tro? why
hat atr gat his hos and led the hit? is it not for
lov-hai hel's sak? do the the son of atr alo of mor
men lov the wiv? sur wha man is goo and sou of min
lov his own and che her, eve as i too lov min wit all my
hea, tho but the cap of my spe. but now tha he hat tak my
mee of hon fro min arm and hat dec me, let him not tem me
tha kno him ful wel; he sha not pre. nay, ody, let him
tak cou wit the and all the pri to war fro the shi the
con fir. ver wit min aid he hat wro man thi, and
bui a wal and dug a fos abo it wid and dee, and set a pal
the; yet eve so can he not sta mur hec's mig. but so
lon as i was fig ami the ach, hec had no min to arr
his bat far fro the wal, but sca cam unt the ska gat and
to the oak-tre; the onc he awa me alo and sca esc my
ons. but now, see i hav no min to fig wit nob hec, i wil
to-mor do sac to zeu and all the god, and sto wel my shi
whe i hav lau the on the sal sea--the sha tho see, if tho
wil and has any car the, my shi sai at bre of day ove
hel, the fis' hom, and my men rig eag at the oar; and if
the gre sha of the ear gra me goo jou, on the thi day
sho i rea dee-soi pht. the are my gre pos tha i
lef whe i cam hit to my hur; and yet mor gol and rud bro
sha i bri fro hen, and fai-gir wom and gre iro, all at
lea tha wer min by lot; onl my mee of hon hat he tha gav it
me tak bac in his des, eve lor aga son of atr.
to him dec ye eve eve as i cha you, ope, tha all the
ach lik may hav ind, if hap he hop to beg
yet som oth dan, for tha he is eve clo in sha.
ver not in my fac wou he dar to loo, tho he hav the fro of
a dog. nei wil i dev cou wit him nor any ent, for
utt he hat dec me and don wic; but nev aga sha he
beg me wit fai spe--let thi suf him. let him beg in
pea; zeu the lor of cou hat tak awa his wit. hat to me
are his gif, and i hol him at a str's wor. not eve if he gav me
ten tim, yea twe, all tha now is his, and all tha may com to him
oth, eve all the rev of orc or egy the whe
the tre-hou are sto ful--the of the hun gat,
whe sal for two hun war thr eac wit hor and
cha--nay, nor gif in num as san or dus; not eve so sha
aga per my sou til he hav pai me bac all the bit
des. and the dau of aga son of atr wil i not wed, not
wer she riv of gol aph for fai and for han
mat bri-eye ath--not eve the wil i wed her; let him cho
him of the ach ano tha is his pee and is mor roy tha i.
for if the god ind pre me and i com unt my hom, the wil
pel him see me a wif. man ach mai are the thr
hel and pht, dau of pri tha war the cit;
who of the i wis wil i mak my dea lad. ver oft was my
hig sou mov to tak me the a wed wif, a hel mee for me, and
hav joy of the pos tha the old man pel pos. for not
of lik wor wit lif hol i eve all the wea tha men say was
pos of the wel-peo cit of ili in day of pea gon by,
bef the son of the ach cam; nei all the tre tha the
sto thr of the arc pho apo enc in roc
pyt. for kin and goo flo are to be had for the har, and
tri and che hor for the pur; but to bri bac man's
lif nei har nor ear ava whe onc it hat pas the
bar of his lip. for thu my god mot tel me, the the
sil-foo, tha twa fat are bea me to the iss of dea. if
i abi her and bes the tro' cit, the my ret hom is
tak fro me, but my fam sha be imp; but if i go hom to my
dea nat lan, my hig fam is tak fro me, but my lif sha
end lon whi, nei sha the iss of dea soo rea me.
mor i wou cou you all to set sai hom, see ye sha
nev rea you goa of ste ili; of a sur far-see zeu
hol his han ove her and her fol are of goo cou. so go you
way and tel my ans to the pri of the ach, eve as is the
off of eld, tha the may dev in the hea som oth bet
cou, suc as sha sav the the shi and the hos of the
ach ami the hol shi: sin thi cou ava the nau
tha the hav now dev, by rea of my fie wra. but let
pho now abi wit us and lay him to res, tha he may fol wit
me on my shi to our dea nat lan to-mor, if he wil; for i wil
not tak him per."

so spa he, and the all hel the pea and wer sti, and mar
at his say; for he den the ver veh. but at the las spa
to the the old kni pho, bur int tea, bec he was sor
afr for the shi of the ach: "if ind tho pon
dep in thy hea, glo ach, and has no min at all to
sav the fle shi fro con fir, bec tha wra bat
ent int thy hea; how can i be lef of the, dea son, alo
the? to the did the old kni pel sen me the day he sen
the to aga for fro pht, a str yet uns in equ
war and in deb whe men wax pre-emi. the sen he me to
tea the all the thi, to be bot a spe of wor and a doe of
dee. yea, i rea the to thi gre, tho god ach, wit
my hea's lov; for wit non oth wou tho go unt the fea,
nei tak mea in the hal, til tha i had set the upo my kne
and sta the wit the sav mor cut fir for the, and put the
win-cup to thy lip. oft has tho sta the dou on my bre
wit spu of win in thy sor hel. thu i suf muc
wit the, and muc i toi, bei min tha the god in now
cre any iss of my bod; but i mad the my son, tho god
ach, tha tho may yet sav me fro gri des.
the, ach, rul thy hig spi; nei bes it the to
hav a rut hea. nay, eve the ver god can ben, and the
wit is lof maj and hon and mig. nay, com for the gif;
the ach sha hon the eve as a god. but if wit gif tho
ent int bat the ban of men, tho wil not be hel in lik hon,
eve tho tho ave the fra."

and ach fle of foo mad ans and sai to him: "pho my
fat, tho old man fos of zeu, suc hon nee i in no wis;
for i dee tha i hav bee hon by the jud of zeu, whi
sha abi upo me ami my bea shi as lon as bre tar in
my bod and my lim are str. mor i wil say thi thi to the
and lay tho it to thi hea; tro not my sou by wee and
lam, to do the ple of war atr; nei bes
it the to che him, les tho be hat of me tha che the. it
wer goo tha tho wit me sho vex him tha vex me. be tho
kin eve as i, and sha my swa by hal, but the sha bea my
mes. so tar tho her and lay the to res in a sof bed, and wit
bre of day wil we con whe to dep unt our own, or to
abi."

he spa, and nod his bro in sil unt pat to spr for
pho a thi cou, tha the oth mig bet the to dep fro
the hut wit spe. the spa to the aia, tel's god son, and
sai: "hea-spr son of lae, ody of man wil, let us go
hen; for met the pur of our cha wil not by thi jou
be acc; and we mus tel the new, tho it be no wis goo,
wit all spe unt the dan, tha now sit awa. but ach
hat wro his pro sou to fur wit him--stu man, tha
rec nau of his com' lov, whe we wor him bey
all men ami the shi--unm! yet dot a man acc rec of
his bro's mur or for his dea son; and so the man-sla for a
gre pri abi in his own lan, and the kin's hea is
app, and his pro sou, whe he hat tak the rec. but for
the, the god hav put wit thy bre a spi imp and evi,
by rea of one sin dam. and now we off the sev dam, far
bes of all, and man oth gif bes; ent tho the a kin
spi, and hav res unt thi hom; bec we are gue of thy
roo, sen of the mul of dan, and we wou fai be nea to
the and dea bey all oth ach, as man as the be."

and ach fle of foo mad ans and sai to him: "aia spr of
zeu, tho son of tel, pri of the fol, tho see to spe all
thi alm aft min own min; but my hea swe wit wra as oft
as i bet me of tho thi, how atr ent me arr
amo the arg, as tho i wer som wor soj. but go ye
and dec my mes; i wil not tak tho of blo war unt tha
wis pri's son, nob hec, com to the myr' hut and shi,
sla the arg, and smi the shi wit fir. but abo min hut
and bla shi i wee tha hec, tho he be ver eag for bat,
sha be ref."

so sai he, and the too eac man a two-han cup, and mad lib
and wen bac alo the lin of shi; and ody led the way. and
pat bad his fel and han spr wit all spe a thi
cou for pho; and the obe and spr a cou as he ord,
fle and rug and fin flo of lin. the the old man lai him dow
and tar for bri daw.

now whe tho wer com unt atr' hut, the son of the ach
sto up on thi sid and on tha, and ple the in cup of gol, and
que the; and aga kin of men ask the fir: "com now,
tel me, ody ful of pra, tho gre glo of the ach; wil
he sav the shi fro con fir, or sai he nay, and hat wra
yet hol of his pro spi?"

and ste goo ody ans him: "mos nob son of atr,
aga kin of men, he yon hat no min to que his wra, but
is yet mor fil of fur, and spu the and thy gif. he bid
the tak cou for thy ami the arg, how to sav the shi
and fol of the ach. and for him he thr tha at bre
of day he wil lau upo the sea his tri wel-ben shi. mor
he sai tha he wou cou all to sai for hom, bec ye now sha
nev rea you goa of ste ili; sur far-see zeu hol his
han ove her and her fol are of goo cou. eve so sai he, and
her are als the to tel the tal tha wer my com, aia and
the two her, bot men dis. but the old man pho lai him
the to res, eve as ach bad him, tha he may fol wit him on
his shi to his dea nat lan to-mor, if he wil; for he wil not
tak him per."

so sai he, and the all hel the pea and wer sti, mar at
his say, for he har ver veh. lon wer the son of the
ach voi for gri, but at the las dio of the lou
war-cry spa ami the: "mos nob son of atr, aga kin of
men, wou tho had nev bes pel' glo son wit off of
gif inn; pro is he at any tim, but now has tho yet far
mor enc him in his hau. how we wil let him bid,
whe he go or tar; her he sha fig, whe his hea
wit him bid and god aro him. com now, eve as i sha say
let us all obe. go ye now to res, ful to you hea' des of mea
and win, whe cou is and str; but whe fai ros-fin
daw app, arr tho wit all spe bef the shi thy fol and
hor, and urg the on; and fig thy ami the for."

so sai he, and all the pri gav ass, app the say of
dio tam of hor. and the the mad lib and wen eve man
to his hut, and the lai the to res and too the boo of sle.



boo x.

    how dio and ody sle dol, a spy of the tro,
    and the spi on the tro cam, and too the hor
    of rhe, the thr kin.

now bes the shi the oth lea of the who ach hos wer
sle all nig lon, by sof sle ove, but aga son of
atr, she of the hos, swe sle hel not, so man thi he
deb in his min. and eve as whe the lor of fai-tre her
lig, fas eit a mig rai uns, or hai, or
sno, whe the fla spr all the plo lan, or fas
per the wid mou of bit war, eve so oft in his bre
gro aga, fro the ver dee of his hea, and his spi
tre wit him. and whe he loo tow tha tro pla,
he mar at the man fir tha bla in fro of ili, and at the
sou of flu and pip, and the noi of men; but whe to the
shi he gla and the hos of the ach, the ren he man a loc
cle for fro his hea, to zeu tha is abo, and gre gro
his nob hea.

and thi in his sou see to him the bes cou, to go fir of all
to nes son of nel, if per he mig con wit him som
rig dev tha sho be for the war off of evi fro all the
dan.

the he ros, and did on his dou abo his bre, and ben his
shi fee he bou on fai san, and the cla him in the
taw ski of a lio fie and gre, a ski tha rea to the fee,
and he gra his spe.

and eve in lik wis did tre fea tak hol on men, (for
nei on his eye did sle set dow,) les som sho
bef the arg, who ver for his sak ove wid wat wer com
to tro-lan, wit fie war in the tho.

wit a dap par's aki fir he cov his bro sho, and he
rai and set on his hea a cas of bro, and too a spe in his
str han. the wen he on his way to rou his bro, tha mig
rul ove all the arg, and as a god was hon by the peo. him
fou he har his goo gea abo his sho, by the ste of
the shi, and gla to his bro was his com. the men of the
lou war-cry fir acc him: "whe thu, dea bro, art tho
arm? wil tho spe for any of thy com to spy on the tro?
nay, ter i fea les non sho und for the thi dee, eve
to go and spy out the foe alo thr the amb nig; nee
mus he be a man rig har of hea."

the the lor aga ans him and spa: "nee of goo cou
hav i and tho, men fos of zeu, of cou tha wil hel
and sav the arg and the shi, sin the hea of zeu hat tur
aga. sur on the sac of hec hat he set his hea rat
tha on our. for nev did i see, nor hea any tel, tha one man
dev so man ter dee in one day, as hec, dea to zeu, hat
wro on the son of the ach, una; tho no dea son of a
god is he, nor of a god. he hat don dee tha met wil be a
sor to the arg, las and lon, suc evi hat he dev
aga the ach. but go now, run swi by the shi, and sum
aia and ido, but i wil bet me to nob nes, and bid him
ari, if per he wil be fai to go to the sac com of the
sen and lay on the his com. for to him abo oth wou
the lis, for his own son is chi amo the sen, he and the
bro in arm of ido, eve mer, for to the abo all we
ent thi cha."

the men of the lou war-cry ans him: "how mea tho thi
wor whe tho dos com and exh me? am i to abi the wit
the, wai til tho com, or run bac aga to the whe i hav
wel del to the thy com?"

the the kin of men, aga, ans him aga: "the do tho
abi les we mis eac oth as we go, for man are the pat thr
the cam. but cal alo, whe tho goe, and bid men awa,
nam eac man by his lin, and his fat's nam, and giv all
the due of hon, nor be tho pro of hea. nay rat let us
our be lab, for eve thu did zeu fro our ver bir
dis to us the hea of toi."

so he spa, and sen his bro awa, hav cle lai on him his
com. the wen he him aft nes, the she of the
hos, who he fou by his hut and bla shi, in his sof bed: bes
him lay his arm, a shi, and two spe, and a shi hel. bes
him lay his gli gir whe the old man was won to gir
him whe he har him for war, the ban of men, and led on the
hos, for he yie not to gri old age. the he rai him on his
elb, lif his hea, and spa to the son of atr, inq of
him wit thi wor: "who art tho tha far alo by the shi,
thr the cam in the dar nig, whe oth mor are sle?
see tho one of thy mul, or of thy com? spe, and com not
sil upo me. wha nee has tho?"

the the kin of men, aga, ans him: "o nes, son of nel,
gre glo of the ach, tho sha kno aga, son of atr,
who abo all men zeu hat pla for eve amo lab, whi my
bre abi wit my bre, and my kne mov. i wan thu, for
tha swe sle res not on min eye, but war is my car, and the
tro of the ach. yea, gre i fea for the sak of the
dan, nor is my hea fir, but i am tos to and fro, and my hea
is lea fro my bre, and my goo kne tre ben me. but if
tho wil do aug, sin nei on the com sle, let us go
thi to the sen, tha we may see the, les the be for
wit toi, and so are slu, and hav qui for to kee
wat. and hos men cam har by, nor kno we at all but tha the
are kee to do bat in the nig."

the kni nes of ger ans him: "ver wil i fol
aft the, but let us als rou oth aga, bot the son of tyd,
spe ren, and ody, and swi aia, and the str son of
phy. but wel it wou be if one wer to go and cal tho als, the
god aia, and ido the pri; for the shi are fur of
all, and now clo at han. but men wil i bla, dea as he is
and wor, yea, eve if tho be ang wit me, nor wil i hid my
tho, for tha he slu, and to the alo hat lef the toi;
now sho he be toi amo all the chi and bes the, for
nee no lon tol is com upo us."

and the kin of men, aga, ans him aga: "old man, ano
day i eve bid the bla him, for oft is he sla, and wil not
to lab, yie nei to unr nor hee of hea,
but loo tow me, and exp min ins. but now he awo
far bef me, and cam to me, and him i sen for to cal tho
con who tho inq. but let us be gon, and the sha
we fin bef the gat, amo the sen, for the i bad the
gat."

the kni nes of ger ans him: "so wil non of the
arg be wro wit him or dis him, whe soe he dot urg any
one, and giv him his com."

so spa he, and did on his dou abo his bre, and ben his
bri fee he bou goo sho, and all aro him buc a pur
clo, wit dou fol and wid, and thi dow all ove it.

and he too a str spe, poi wit sha bro, and he wen amo
the shi of the mai-cla ach. the ody fir, the pee of
zeu in cou, did kni ger nes aro out of sle, wit
his voi, and qui the cry cam all abo his hea, and he cam
for fro the hut and spa to the say: "whe thu amo the
shi and thr the cam do ye wan alo, in the amb nig;
wha so gre nee com upo you?"

the kni nes of ger ans him: "lae' son, be not
wro, for gre tro bes the ach. nay fol, tha we may
aro oth too, eve all tha it beh to tak cou, whe we
sho fly, or fig."

so spa he, and ody of the man cou cam to the hut, and cas
a shi abo his sho, and wen aft the.

and the wen to see dio, son of tyd, and him the fou
out his hut, wit his arm, and aro him his com wer
sle wit the shi ben the hea, but the spe wer
dri int the gro ere on the spi of the but, and afa sho
the bro, lik the lig of fat zeu. now tha her was asl,
and und him was str the hid of an ox of the fie, but ben his
hea was str a shi car. bes him wen and sto kni
nes of ger and sti him wit a tou of his foo, and aro
him, chi him to his fac, say: "wak, son of tyd, why all
nig lon dos tho sle? kno tho not tha the tro on the
hig pla of the pla are cam nea the shi, and but a lit
spa hol the apa?"

so spa he, and dio spr swi up out of sle, and spa to
him win wor: "har art tho, old man, and fro toi tho nev
cea. now are the not oth you son of the ach, who mig
rou whe the is nee eac of the kin, goi all aro the hos?
but tho, old man, art ind."

and him kni nes of ger ans aga, "nay ver, my son,
all thi tha tho say is acc unt rig. nob son hav i,
and the be man of the hos, of who eac man mig go and cal the
oth. but a rig gre nee hat ass the ach. for now to
all of us it sta on a raz's edg, eit pit rui for the
ach, or lif. but com now, if ind tho dos pit me, rou
swi aia, and the son of phy, for tho art you tha i."

so spa he, and dio cas rou his sho the ski of a gre
fie lio, tha rea to his fee, and he gra his spe, and
sta on his way, and rou the oth fro the pla and led the
on.

now whe the had com amo the ass sen, the fou not the
lea of the sen asl, but the all sat wid awa wit the
arm. and eve as hou kee dif gua rou the she in a fol,
hav hea a har wil bea tha com thr the woo amo the
hil, and muc cla ris rou him of hou and men, and sle
per fro the, eve so swe sle did per fro the eye, as
the wat thr the wic nig, for eve wer the tur tow
the pla, whe the hea the tro mov.

and tha old man was gla whe he saw the, and hea the wit his
say, and cal out to the he spa win wor: "eve so now,
dea chi, do ye kee wat, nor let sle tak any man, les we
bec a cau of rej to the tha hat us."

so say he spe thr the moa, and the fol wit him, the
kin of the arg, who had bee cal to the cou. and wit the
wen mer, and the glo son of nes, for the cal the to
sha the cou. so the wen cle out of the del fos, and sat
dow in the ope, whe the mid-spa was cle of dea men fal,
whe fie hec had tur aga fro des the arg, whe
nig cov all. the sat the dow, and dec the say eac
to the oth, and to the kni nes of ger beg dis: "o
fri, is the the no man tha wou tru to his own dar spi,
to go amo the gre-hea tro, if per he mig tak som
str of the ene, yea, or hea per som rum amo the
tro, and wha thi the dev amo the, whe the are
fai to abi the by the shi, awa fro the cit, or wil ret
aga to the cit, now tha the hav con the ach? all thi
mig suc an one lea, and bac to us com sca: gre wou be
his fam und hea amo all men, and a goo gif wil be giv
him. for all the bes men tha bea swa by the shi, eac and all of
the wil giv him a bla ewe, wit her lam at her foo, and eve wil
he be pre at fea and cla-dri."

so spa he, and the wer the all sil, hol the pea, but
to the spa dio of the lou war-cry: "nes, my hea and man
spi urg me to ent the cam of the foe har by, eve of the
tro: and if som oth man wil fol wit me, mor com and
mor cou wil the be. if two go tog, one bef ano
per a mat, how the may be gai the; but if one alo
per aug, eve so his wit is sho, and wea his dev."

so spa he, and man wer the tha wis to fol dio. the two
aia wer wil, men of are' com, and mer was wil,
and rig wil the son of nes, and the son of atr, men,
spe ren, yea and the har ody was wil to ste int
the thr of tro, for alw dar was his hea wit him. but
amo the spa the kin of men, aga: "dio son of tyd,
joy of min hea, thy com ver sha tho cho, who tho
wil, the bes of the tha be her, for man are eag. but do not
tho, out of rev hea, lea the bet man beh, and giv
thy the wor com, yie to reg for any, and loo to
the lin, eve if one be mor kin bor."

so spa he, but was in fea for the sak of fai-hai men. but
to the aga ans dio of the lou war-cry: "if ind ye bid
me cho mys a com, how the cou i be unm of god
ody, who hea is pas eag, and his spi so man in all
man of toi; and ath lov him. but whi he com wit me,
eve out of bur fir mig we bot ret, for he exc in
und."

the him aga ans the ste nob ody: "son of tyd,
pra me not ove, nei bla me aug, for tho spe thu
amo the arg tha the kno all. but let us be goi, for
tru the nig is wan, and nea is the daw, and the sta hav gon
onw, and the nig has adv mor tha two wat, but the thi
wat is yet lef."

so spa the, and har the in the dre arm. to the son of
tyd did thr ste in war giv a two-edg swo (for his
own was lef by his shi) and a shi, and abo his hea set a hel of
bul's hid, wit con or cre, tha is cal a sku-cap, and
kee the hea of sta you. and mer gav ody a bow and
a qui, and a swo, and on his hea set a hel mad of lea, and
wit man a tho was it sti wro wit, whi wit the whi
tee of a boa of fla tus wer arr thi set on eit sid,
wel and cun, and in the mid was fix a cap of fel.

so whe the twa had har the in the dre arm, the set
for to go, and lef the all the bes of the hos. and to the did
pal ath sen for an ome on the rig, a her har by the way,
and the beh it not wit the eye, thr the dar nig, but the
hea its shr cry. and ody was gla in the ome of the bir, and
pra to ath: "lis to me, tho chi of aeg-bea zeu, tha
eve in all toi dos sta by me, nor dot any mot of min esc
the: but now aga abo all be tho fri to me, ath, and gra
tha we com bac wit ren to the shi, hav wro a gre wor,
tha sha be sor to the tro."

nex aga pra dio of the lou war-cry: "lis now lik to
me, tho chi of zeu, unw mai, and fol wit me as whe
wit my fat tho did fol, eve nob tyd, int the, whe
he wen for as a mes fro the ach. eve so now sta tho
by me wil, and pro me. and to the wil i sac a yea
hei, bro of bro, unb, tha nev yet hat man led bel the
yok. her wil i sac to the, and gil her hor wit gol."

so spa the in the pra, and pal ath hea the. and whe
the had pra to the dau of mig zeu, the wen for on the
way, lik two lio, thr the dar nig, ami the sla, ami
the sla men, thr the arm and the bla blo.

nay, nor the sto-hea tro did hec suf to sle, but he
cal tog all the bes of the, all tha wer chi and lea
of the tro, the did he cal tog, and con a cra
cou: "who is the tha wou pro and per for me thi dee,
for a gre gif? yea his rew sha be suf. for i wil giv
him a cha, and two hor of arc nec, the bes tha be at the
swi shi of the ach, to who sha dar the dee, and for
him sha win glo. and the dee is thi; to go nea the
swi-far shi, and see out whe the swi shi are gua, as
of old, or whe alr, bei sub ben our han, the foe
are dev of fli amo the, and hav no car to wat
thr the nig, bei for wit dre wea."

so spa he, but the wer all sil and hel the pea. now the
was amo the tro one dol, the son of eum the god her,
and he was ric in gol, and ric in bro: and ver he was ill
fav to loo upo, but swi of foo. so he spa the a wor to the
tro and to hec: "hec, my hea and man spi urg me to go
nea the swi-far shi, and spy out all. but com, i pra the,
hol up the sta, and swe to me, tha ver tho wil giv me the
hor and the cha bed wit bro tha bea the nob son of
pel. but to the i wil pro no vai spy, nor dis thy hop.
for i wil go str to the cam, unt i may com to the shi of
aga, whe sur the chi are lik to hol cou, whe to
fig or fle."

so spa he, and hec too the sta in his han, and swa to him:
"now let zeu him be wit, the lou-thu lor of her, tha
no oth man of the tro sha mou tho hor, but tho, i
dec, sha rej in the for eve."

so spa he, and swa a boo oat the, and aro dol to go.
and str he cas on his sho his cro bow, and did on
the the ski of a gre wol, and on his hea a hel of
fer-ski, and too a sha jav, and wen on his way to the shi
fro the hos. but he was not lik to com bac fro the shi and bri
wor to hec.

but whe he had lef the thr of men and hor, he wen for eag
on the way, and ody of the see of zeu was war of him as he
app, and sai unt dio: "lo, her is som man, dio,
com fro the cam, i kno not whe as a spy to our shi, or to
str cer of the dea men fal. but let us suf him to pas by
us a lit way on the pla, and the may we rus on him and tak
him spe, and if it cha tha he out us by spe of foo, eve
do tho hem him in tow the shi and awa fro the cam, rus on
him wit thy spe, les in any wis he esc tow the cit."

so the spa, and tur out of the pat the lay dow amo the
bod of the dea; and swi dol ran pas the in his wit.
but whe he was as far off as is the len of the fur mad by mul,
the twa ran aft him, and he sto sti whe he hea the sou,
sup in his hea tha the wer fri com fro amo the
tro to tur him bac, at the cou of hec. but whe the
wer abo a spe-cas off, or eve les, he kne the for foe-men, and
sti his swi lim to fly, and spe the sta in pur.

and as whe two sha-too hou, wel ski in the cha, pre
eve har on a doe or a har thr a woo lan, and it run
scr bef the, eve so tyd' son and ody the sac of
cit cut dol off fro the hos, and eve pur har aft him. but
whe he was jus abo to com amo the sen, in his fli
tow the shi, the ath pou str int the son of tyd,
tha non of the mai-cla ach mig boa him the fir to
smi, and he com sec. and str dio lea upo him wit the
spe, and sai: "sta, or i sha ove the wit the spe, and
met tha tho sha not lon avo she des at my han."

so spa he, and thr his spe, but of his own wil he mis the man,
and pas ove his rig sho the poi of the pol spe
stu fas in the gro: and dol sto sti, in gre dre and
tre, and the tee cha in his mou, and he was gre wit
fea. the the twa cam up wit him, pan, and gri his han,
and wee he spa: "tak me ali, and i wil ran mys, for
wit our hou the is bro, and gol, and smi iro, whe
my fat wou do you gra wit ran unt, if he sho lea tha
i am ali amo the shi of the ach."

the ody of the man cou ans him and sai: "tak cou,
let not dea be in thy min, but com spe and tel me tru all the
tal, why thu fro the hos los tho com all alo amo the shi,
thr the bla nig, whe oth mor are sle? com tho to
str cer of the dea men fal, or did hec sen the for to
spy out eve at the hol shi, or did thi own spi urg
the on?"

the dol ans him, his lim tre ben him: "wit man a
bli hop did hec lea my wit ast, who vow to giv me the
who-hoo hor of the pro son of pel, and his car bed wit
bro: and he bad me far thr the swi bla nig, and dra nig
the foe, and see out whe the swi shi are gua, as of old,
or whe, alr, bei sub ben our han, the are dev
of fli amo the, and hav no car to wat thr the nig,
bei for wit dre wea."

and smi the did ody of the man cou mak him ans:
"ver now thy sou was set on gre rew, eve the hor of the
wis son of aia, but har are the for mor men to mas, and har
to dri, for any but ach onl, who a dea mot bar. but
com, tel me all thi tru, all the tal: whe whe tho cam
hit did tho lea hec, she of the hos, and whe lie his
war gea, and whe his hor? and how are dis the wat,
and the bed of the oth tro? and wha cou tak the amo
the; are the fai to abi the nig the shi afa fro the
cit, or wil the ret to the cit aga, see tha the hav
sub unt the the ach?"

the dol son of eum mad him ans aga: "lo, now all the
thi wil i rec to the mos tru. hec wit the tha are
cou hol cou by the bar of god ilo, apa fro
the din, but as for the gua whe tho ask, oh her, no cho
wat nor gua kee the hos. as for all the wat fir of the
tro--on the is nec, so tha the wat and enc eac
oth to kee gua; but, for the all cal fro man lan, the
are sle and to the tro the lea it to kee wat, for no wis
nea dwe the chi and wiv of the all." the ody of the
man cou ans him and sai: "how sta it now, do the sle
ami the hor-tam tro, or apa? tel me cle, tha i may
kno."

the ans him dol son of eum: "ver all thi lik wil i
rec to the tru. tow the sea lie the kar, and pai of
the ben bow, and the lel and kau, and nob pel. and
tow thy the lyk hav the pla, and the hau mys,
and the phr tha fig fro cha, and mai lor of
cha. but whe do ye inq of me thr con all
the thi? for if ye des to ste int the thr of tro, lo,
the be tho thr, new com, at the fur poi apa fro
the res, and amo the the kin rhe, son of eio. his be the
fai hor tha eve i beh, and the gre, whi tha sno,
and for spe lik the win. and his cha is fas wel wit
gol and sil, and gol is his arm tha he bro wit him,
mar, a won to beh; suc as it is in no wis fit for mor
men to bea, but for the dea god. but bri me now to the swi
shi, or lea me her, whe ye hav bou me wit a rut bon,
tha ye may go and mak tri of me whe i hav spo to you tru,
or lie."

the str dio, loo gri on him, sai: "put no tho of
esc, dol, in thy hea, for all the goo tid tho has bro,
sin onc tho hal com int our han. for if now we rel the or
let the go, on som lat day wil tho com to the swi shi of the
ach, eit to pla the spy, or to fig in ope war, but if
sub ben my han tho los thy lif, nev aga wil tho pro
a ban to the arg."

he spa, and tha oth wit str han was abo to tou his chi,
and imp his mer, but dio smo him on the mid of the nec,
rus on him wit the swo, and cut thr bot the sin, and the
hea of him sti spe was min wit the dus. and the str
him of the cas of fer's ski fro off his hea, and of his
wol-ski, and his ben bow, and his lon spe, and the to ath
the giv of spo did nob ody hol alo in his han, and he
pra and spa a wor: "rej, o god, in the, for to the
fir of all the imm in oly wil we cal for aid; nay, but yet
aga sen us on aga the hor and the sle pla of the
thr men."

so spa he alo, and lif fro him the spo on hig, and set the
on a tam bus, and rai the a mar rig pla to see,
gat tog ree, and lux sho of tam, les the
sho mis the pla as the ret aga thr the swi dar
nig.

so the twa wen for thr the arm, and the bla blo, and
qui the cam to the com of thr men. now the wer
slu, for wit toi, but the goo wea lay by the on
the gro, all ord, in thr row, and by eac man his pai of
ste. and rhe sle in the mid, and bes him his swi hor
wer bou wit tho to the top rim of the cha. him ody
spi fro afa, and sho him unt dio: "lo, dio, thi is
the man, and the are the hor whe dol tha we sle did giv us
tid. but com now, put for thy gre str; it dot not beh
the to sta idl wit thy wea: nay, loo the hor; or do tho
sla the men, and of the hor wil i tak hee."

so spa he, and int tha oth bri-eye ath bre mig, and
he beg sla on thi sid and on tha, and hid wen up the
gro, as the wer smi wit the swo, and the ear was
red wit blo. and lik as a lio com on flo wit a
her, on goa or she, and lea upo the wit evi wil, so set
the son of tyd on the men of thr, til he had sla twe. but
who the son of tyd dre nea and smo wit the swo, him did
ody of the man cou sei by the foo fro beh, and dra
him out of the way, wit thi des in his hea, tha the fai-man
hor mig lig iss for, and not tre in spi, whe the
tro ove the dea; for the wer not yet use to dea men. but whe the
son of tyd cam upo the kin, he was the thi fro who he
too swe lif awa, as he was bre har, for an evi dre sto
abo his hea tha nig thr the dev of ath. mea the
har ody loo the who-hoo hor, and bou the tog
wit tho, and dra the out of the pre, smi the wit his bow,
sin he had not tak tho to lif the shi whi wit his han
fro the cha; the he whi for a sig to nob dio.

but dio sto and pon wha mos dar dee he mig do,
whe he sho tak the cha, whe lay the arm, and dra it
out by the pol, or lif it upo hig, and so bea it for, or whe
he sho tak the lif awa fro yet mor of the thr. and whi
he was pon thi in his hea, the ath dre nea, and sto,
and spa to nob dio: "bet the of ret, o son of
gre-hea tyd, to the hol shi, les per tho com
thi in fli, and per ano god rou up the tro
lik."

so spa she, and he obs the voi of the utt of the god,
and swi he spr upo the ste, and ody smo the wit his
bow, and the spe to the swi shi of the ach.

nay, nor a vai wat kep apo of the sil bow, whe he beh
ath car for the son of tyd; in wra aga her he sto amo
the cro pre of tro, and aro a cou of the thr,
hip, the nob kin of rhe. and he sta out of sle,
whe he beh the pla des whe the swi hor had sto, and
beh the men gas in the dea str; the he gro alo, and
cal out by nam to his com dea. and a cla aro and din
uns of the tro has tog, and the mar at the
ter dee, eve all tha the her had wro, and had gon
the to the hol shi.

but whe tho oth cam to the pla whe the had sla the spy of
hec, the ody, dea to zeu, che the swi hor, and
tyd' son, lea to the gro, set the blo spo in the han of
ody, and aga mou, and las the hor, and the spe onw
not lot. but nes fir hea the sou, and sai: "o fri,
lea and cou of the arg, sha i be wro or spe soo?
for my hea bid me spe. the sou of swi-foo hor str
upo min ear. wou to god tha ody and tha str dio may
eve ins be dri the who-hoo hor fro amo the
tro; but ter i fea in min hea les the bra of the
arg suf aug thr the tro' bat din."

not yet was his who wor spo, whe the cam the, and lea
dow to ear, but gla the oth wel the wit han-cla,
and wit hon wor. and fir did kni nes of ger mak
que: "com, tel me now, ren ody, gre glo of the
ach, how ye twa too tho hor? was it by ste int the
pre of tro? or did som god mee you, and giv you the? won
lik are the to ray of the sun. eve wit the tro do i mix in
fig, nor met do i tar by the shi, old war as i am. but
nev yet saw i suc hor, nor dee of suc. nay, met som god
mus hav enc you and giv you the. for bot of you dot zeu
the clo-gat lov, and the mai of aeg-bea zeu,
bri-eye ath."

and him ans ody of the man cou: "o nes, son of
nel, gre glo of the ach, lig cou a god, if so he
wou, giv eve bet ste tha the, for the god are far str
tha we. but as for the new-com hor, whe, old man, tho ask
me, the are thr, but the lor did bra dio sla, and
bes him all the twe bes men of his com. the thi man
was a spy we too nea the shi, one tha hec and the oth hau
tro sen for to pry upo our cam."

so spa he, and dra the who-hoo hor thr the fos,
lau; and the oth ach wen wit him joy. but whe the
had com to the wel-bui hut of the son of tyd, the bou the
hor wit wel-cut tho, at the man whe the swi hor of
dio sto eat hon-swe bar.

and ody pla the blo spo of dol in the ste of the shi,
tha the mig mak rea a sac off to ath. but for
the, the wen int the sea, and was off the thi swe fro
shi, and nec, and thi. but whe the wav of the sea had was the
thi swe fro the ski, and the hea rev aga, the wen
int pol bat, and wer cle.

and whe the had was, and ano the wit oli oil, the sat
dow at sup, and fro the ful mix bow the dre off the
hon-swe win, and pou it for to ath.



boo xi.

    des the glo dee of aga, the tro pre
    har on the ach, and the beg of evi com on
    pat.

now daw aro fro her cou bes pro tit, to bri lig to
the imm and to mor men. but zeu sen for fie dis unt
the fle shi of the ach, and in her han she hel the sig of
war. and she sto upo the hug bla shi of ody, tha was in the
mid, to mak her voi hea on eit sid, bot to the hut of aia,
son of tel, and to the hut of ach, for the twa, tru
in the val and the mig of the han, had dra up the tri
shi at the two end of the lin. the sto the god and cri
shr in a gre voi and ter, and mig str she set in
the hea of eac of the ach, to war and fig unc. and
str to the war gre swe tha to dep in the hol shi
to the dea nat lan.

the eac man gav in cha his hor to his cha, to hol the
in by the fos, wel and ord, and the as hea men at arm
wer has abo, bei har in the gea, and unq the
cry aro int the daw. and lon bef the cha wer the
arr at the fos, but aft the a lit way cam up the dri.
and amo the the son of kro aro an evi din, and fro abo
rai dow dew dan wit blo out of the upp air, for tha he was
abo to sen man str men dow to had.

but the tro on the oth sid, on the hig gro of the pla,
gat the aro gre hec, and nob pol, and ain tha
as a god was hon by the peo of the tro, and the thr son
of ant, pol, and nob age, and you aka lik unt the
imm. and hec in the for ran bar the cir of his
shi. and as fro ami the clo app gli a ban sta,
and the aga sin wit the sha clo, eve so hec wou
now app amo the for ran, and aga wou be giv com
in the rea, and all in bro he sho, lik the lig of
aeg-bea fat zeu.

and eve as whe rea ove aga eac oth dri the swa
thr a ric man's fie of whe or bar, and thi fal the
han, eve so the tro and ach lea upo eac oth,
des, and nei sid too tho of rui fli; and equ
hea had the bat, and the rus on lik wol. and wof dis
was gla at the sig, for she alo of the god was wit the in the
war; for the oth god wer not bes the, but in pea the sat
wit the hal, whe the goo man of eac was bui in the
fol of oly. and the all wer bla the son of kro, lor of
the sto-clo, for tha he wil to giv glo to the tro. but of
the too the fat no hee, but alo fro the oth he sat apa,
gla in his glo, loo tow the cit of the tro, and the shi
of the ach, and the gli of bro, and the sla and the
sla.

so lon as mor was, and the sac day sti wax, so lon did the
sha of bot hos str, and the fol fel, but abo the hou whe
a woo mak rea his mea, in the del of a mou, whe he
hat tir his han wit fel tal tre, and wea com on
his sou, and des of swe foo tak his hea, eve the the
dan by the val bra the bat, and cal on the
com thr the lin. and in rus aga fir of all, whe
thi cla the bat, the he set on, and wit him all the
wel-gre ach. foo kep sla foo as the wer dri
in fli, and hor sla hor wit the swo, and fro
ben the ros up the dus fro the pla, sti by the thu
hoo of hor. and the lor aga, eve sla, fol aft,
cal on the arg. and as whe rui fir fal on den
woo, and the whi win bea it eve, and the thi
fal utt bef it, bei smi by the ons of the fir, eve so
ben aga son of atr fel the hea of the tro as the
fle; and man str-nec hor rat emp car alo the
hig of the bat, lac the nob cha; but the on the
ear wer lyi, far mor dea to the vul tha to the wiv. but
hec did zeu dra for fro the dar and the dus, fro the
man-sla, and the blo, and the din, and the son of atr fol
on, cry eag to the dan. and pas the tom of anc ilo,
son of dar, acr the mid pla, pas the pla of the wil
fig-tre the spe, mak for the cit, and eve the son of atr
fol sho, and his inv han wer def wit gor. but
whe the wer com to the ska gat, and the oak-tre, the the
the hal, and awa eac oth. but som wer sti in ful fli
thr the mid pla, lik kin tha a lio hat sca, com on
the in the dea of nig; all hat he sca, but to one she dea
app ins, and he bre her nec fir, sei her wit
str tee, and the swa gre the blo and all the
gut; eve so lor aga son of atr fol har on the tro,
eve sla the hin man, and the wer sca in fli, and on
fac or bac man of the fel fro the cha ben the han of
aga, for mig he rag wit the spe. but whe he was
now com bel the cit, and the ste wal, the did the fat
of men and god sit him dow on the cre of man-fou ida, fro
hea des, wit the thu in his han.

the sen he for iri of the gol win, to bea his wor: "up and
go, swi iri, and tel thi wor unt hec: so lon as he see
aga, she of the hos, rag amo the for fig, and
rui the ran of men, so lon let him hol bac, but bid the res of
the hos war wit the foe in str bat. but whe, or smi wit
the spe or wou wit arr sho, aga lea int his
cha, the wil i giv hec str to sla til he com eve to
the wel-tim shi, and the sun go dow, and sac dar dra
on."

so swi-foo iri spa to hec the wor of zeu and dep, but
hec wit his har lea fro the cha to the gro, and,
sha his sha spe wen thr all the hos, sti up his men
to fig, and he rou the dre din of bat. and the whe rou,
and sto and fac the ach, whi the arg on the oth sid
str the bat. and bat was mad rea, and the sto
ove aga eac oth, and aga fir rus in, bei eag to
fig far in fro of all.

tel me now, ye mus tha inh man in oly, who was he tha
fir enc aga, whe of the tro the, or of
the all ren? it was iph, son of ant, gre and
mig, who was nur in thr ric of soi, the mot of she; he
it was tha the enc aga son of atr. and whe the wer
com nea in ons aga eac oth, atr' son mis, and his spe
was tur asi, but iph smo him on the gir, bel the
cor, and him pre on, tru to his hea han, but pie
not the gle gir, for lon ere tha the poi str on the
sil, and was ben lik lea. the wid-rul aga cau the
spe wit his han and dre it tow him fur, lik a lio, and
sna it out of the han of iph, and smo his nec wit the
swo, and uns his lim. so eve the he fel, and sle a sle
of bro mos pit. the did aga son of atr str him,
and wen bea his goo har int the thr of the ach.

now whe koo beh him, koo ant's eld son, ill amo
men, str sor cam on him, cov his eye, for his bro's
fal: and he sto on one sid wit his spe, and unm of nob
aga smo him on the mid-arm, ben the elb, and cle thr
wen the poi of the shi spe. the aga kin of men
shu, yet not eve so did he cea fro bat and war, but rus
aga koo, gra his win-nur spe. ver the koo sei
rig lus by the foo iph, his bro, and his fat's son,
and cal to all the bes of his men; but him, as he dra the dea
thr the pre, ben his bos shi aga wou wit a
bro-sho spe, and uns his lim, and dre nea and cut off his
hea ove iph. the the son of ant, at the han of
aga the kin, fil up the mea of the fat, and wen dow
wit the hou of had.

but aga ran amo the ran of men, wit spe, and swo, and
gre sto for thr, whi yet the blo wel war fro his
wou. but whe the wou wax dry, and the blo cea to flo, the
kee pan cam on the mig of the son of atr. the lea he int
his cha, and bad his cha dri to the hol shi, for he
was sor vex at hea. and he cal in a pie voi, and sho
to the dan: "o fri, lea and cou of the arg, do
ye now war fro the sea shi the har din of bat, for zeu
the cou suf me not all day to war wit the tro."

so spa he, and his cha las the fai-man ste tow the
hol shi, and the fle onw not lot, and the bre wer
cov wit foa, and the bel wer sta wit dus, as the
bor the wou kin awa fro the war.

but hec, whe he beh aga dep, cri to the tro and
lyk wit a lou sho: "ye tro and lyk, and dar tha
war in clo fig, be men, my fri, and be min of you imp
val. the bes man of the hat dep and to me hat zeu, the son
of kro, giv gre ren. but str dri ye the who-hoo
hor aga the mig dan, tha ye may be the mas and bea
awa the hig glo."

so spa he, and aro the mig and spi of eve man. him wit
hig tho he far amo the for, and fel upo the fig; lik
a roa bla, tha lea dow and sti the vio-col
dee. the who fir, who las did he sla, eve hec, son of
pri, whe zeu vou him ren?

asa fir, and aut, and opi, and dol, son of kly, and
oph, and age, and ais, and oro, and hip ste
in the fig; the lea of the dan he sle, and the smo
the mul, eve as whe the wes win dri the clo of the
whi sou win, smi wit dee sto, and the wav swe hug,
rol onw, and the spr is sca on hig ben the rus of
the wan win; eve so man hea of the hos wer smi by
hec.

the had rui beg, and dee rem bee wro, and now wou
all the ach hav fle and fal amo the shi, if ody had
not cal to dio, son of tyd: "tyd' son, wha ail us tha
we for our imp val? nay, com hit, fri, and tak thy
sta by me, for ver it wil be sha if hec of the gla hel
tak the shi."

and to him str dio spa in ans: "ver wil i abi and
end, but sho wil be all our pro, for zeu, the clo-gat,
cle des to giv vic to the tro rat tha to us."

he spa, and dra thy fro his cha to the gro, smi
him wit the spe in the lef bre, and ody smo mol the
god squ of tha pri. the the the let be, whe the had
mad the cea fro war, and the the twa far thr the cro
wit a din, as whe two boa ful of val fal on the hun hou;
so rus the on aga, and sle the tro, whi gla the ach
too bre aga in the fli fro nob hec.

but hec qui spi the amo the ran, and rus upo the
sho, and wit him fol the bat of the tro. and
beh him, dio of the lou war-cry shu, and str
spa to ody tha was har by: "lo, on us thi rui, eve mig
hec, is rol: let us sta, and awa him, and war off his
ons."

so spa he, and swa and sen for his far-sha spe, and
smo him nor mis, for he aim at the hea, on the sum of the
cre, and bro by bro was tur, nor rea his fai fle, for
it was sto by the thr hel wit its soc, tha pho
apo to hec gav. but hec spr bac a won way, and
min wit the thr, and he res, fal on his kne, and lea
on the gro wit his sto han, and dar nig vei his eye.

but whi tyd' son was fol aft his spe-cas, far thr
the for fig, whe he saw it sin int the ear, hec gat
bre aga, and lea bac int his cha dra out int the
thr, and avo bla fat. the rus on wit his spe mig
dio spa to him: "dog, tho art now aga esc fro dea; yet
cam ill ver nig the: but now hat pho apo sav the, to who
tho mus sur pra whe tho goe ami the cla of spe. ver i
wil sla the yet whe i mee the her, if any god is hel of
me too. now wil i mak aft the res, who i may sei."

so spa he, and str the son of pae, spe ren. but
ale, the lor of fai-tre hel, aim wit his arr at
tyd, she of the hos; lea as he aim aga a pil on
the bar, by men fas, of ilo, son of dar, an eld of the
peo in tim gon by. now dio was str the shi cor
of str aga fro abo his bre, and the shi fro his
sho, and his str hel, whe par dre the cen of his bow;
nor vai did the sha fly fro his han, for he smo the fla of the
rig foo of dio, and the arr wen cle thr, and sto
fix in the ear; and rig swe lau par lea up fro his
lai, and boa, and sai: "tho art smi, nor vai hat the dar
flo for; wou tha i had smi the in the net bel, and
tak thy lif awa. so sho the tro hav bre aga fro
the tro, the tha shu at the, as ble goa at a lio."

but him ans str dio, no wis dis: "bow, rev,
pro in thy bow of hor, tho gap aft gir, ver if tho mad
tri in ful har, man to man, thy bow and sho of sha wou
not ava the, but now tho boa vai, for tha tho has
gra the sol of my foo. i car not, mor tha if a wom had str
me or a sen boy, for fee is the dar of a cra man and a
wor. in oth wis fro my han, yea, if it do but tou, the
sha sha fli, and str lay low its man, and tor are the
che of his wif, and fat his chi, and he, red the
ear wit his blo, dot rot awa, mor bir tha wom rou him."

so spa he, and ody, spe ren, dre nea, and sto in
fro of him, and dio sat dow beh him, and dre the sha arr
fro his foo, and a sor pan pas thr his fle. the spr he
int his car, and bad his cha dri bac to the hol shi,
for he was hur at hea. the ody, spe ren, was lef
alo, nor did one of the arg abi by him, for fea had fal on
the all. the in hea he spo to his own gre-hea spi:
"ah me, wha thi sha bef me! a gre evi it is if i fle, in
dre of the thr; yet wor is thi, if i be tak all alo, for the
oth dan bat kro sca in fli. but whe dot my
hea thu con wit her? for i kno tha the are cow, who
fle the fig, but who is a her in war, him it mai beh to
sta stu, whe he be smi, or whe he smi ano."

whi he pon thu in hea and spi, the ran cam on of the
tro und shi, and hem him in the mid, set amo the
the own ban. and eve as whe hou and you men in the blo
pre rou a boa, and he com for fro his dee lai, whe his
whi tus bet cro jaw, and rou him the rus, and the sou
of the gna of tus ari, and str the awa his
ass, so dre as he is, eve so the rou ody, dea to zeu,
rus the tro. and fir he wou nob dei, fro abo, in
the sho, lea on him wit sha spe, and nex he sle tho
and enn, and nex che, bei lea dow fro his cha, he
smo wit the spe on the nav ben the bos shi, and he fel
in the dus and clu the gro wit the hol of his han. the
lef he, and wou cha, son of hip, wit the spe, the
bro of hig-bor sok. and to hel him cam sok, a god man,
and sto har by him, and spa say: "o ren ody,
ins of cra and toi, to-day sha tho eit boa ove two
son of hip, as hav sla two suc men of mig, and str
the har, or smi by my spe sha los thy lif."

so spa he, and smo him on the cir of his shi; thr the
shi shi pas the str spe, and thr the fai-dig
cor it was thr, and tor cle off the fle of the fla, but
pal ath did not suf it to min wit the bow of the her,
and ody kne tha the dar had in now lig on a dea spo,
and dra bac, he spa unt sok "ah, wre one, ver
she des is com upo the. sur tho has mad me to cea
fro war amo the tro, but her to the i dec tha sla
and bla fat wil be upo the thi day, and ben my spe
ove sha tho giv glo to me, and thy sou to had of the
nob ste."

he spa, and the oth tur, and sta to fle, and in his bac as
he tur he fix the spe, bet the sho, and dra it
thr the bre. the he fel wit a cra, and nob ody
boa ove him: "ah, sok, son of wis-hea hip the tam of
hor, the end of dea hat com upo and cau the, nor has tho
avo. ah, wre, thy fat and lad mot sha not clo thi
eye in dea, but bir tha eat fle raw sha tea the, shr
the in the mul of the win. but to me, if i die, the nob
ach wil yet giv due bur."

so spa he, and dre the mig spe of wis-hea sok for fro
his fle, and fro his bos shi, and his blo flo for whe
the spe was dra awa, and aff his spi. and the
gre-hea tro whe the beh the blo of ody, wit
cla thr the thr cam all tog aga him. but he gav
gro, and sho unt his com: thr he sho the, as lou
as man's mou mig cry, and thr did men dea to zeu hea his
cal, and qui he spa to aia tha was har by him: "aia, of the
see of zeu, chi of tel, lor of the hos, the sho of ody
of the har hea rin rou me, lik as tho the tro wer
opp him alo amo the, and had cut him off in the str
bat. nay, let us spe int the thr, for bet it is to res
him. i fea les he suf som evi, bei alo amo the tro, so
bra as he is, and les gre sor for his los com upo the
dan."

so spa he, and led the way, and the oth fol him, a god man.
the fou the ody dea to zeu, and the tro bes him lik
taw jac fro the hil rou a wou hor sta, tha a man
hat smi wit an arr fro the bow-str, and the sta hat fle
fro him by spe of foo, as lon as the blo is war and his lim
are str, but whe the swi arr hat ove him, the do the
rav jac ren him in the hil, in a dar woo, and the god
lea a mur lio thi, and the jac fle bef him, but
he ren the, so the, rou wis-hea ody of the cra
cou, did the tro gat, man and mig, but tha her
thr on wit the spe hel off the pit day. the aia dre
nea, bea his shi lik a tow, and sto the, and the
tro fle fro him, whe eac man mig. the war men led
ody out of the pre, hol him by the han, til the squ
dra up the hor.

the aia lea on the tro, and sle doy, bas son of
pri, and the wou he pan, and he wou lys, and
pyr, and pyl. and as whe a bri riv com dow upo the
pla, in win flo fro the hil, swo by the rai of zeu, and
man dry oak and man pin it suc in, and muc soi it cas
int the sea, eve so ren aia cha the, pur thr the
pla, sla hor and men. nor wis hec the at all, for he
was fig on the lef of all the bat, by the ban of the riv
ska, whe chi fel the hea of men, and an unq
cry aro, aro gre nes and war ido. and hec wit
the was war, and ter thi did he, wit the spe and in
hor, and he rav the bat of the you men. nor wou
the nob ach hav yet giv gro fro the pat, if ale,
the lor of fai-tre hel, had not sta mac she of the
hos in his val dee, and smi him on the rig sho wit a
thr-bar arr. the wer the ach, bre val, in
gre fea, les men sho sei mac in the tur of the fig.

the ido spa to nob nes: "o nes, son of nel, gre
glo of the ach, ari, get the up int thy cha, and wit
the let mac go, and swi dri to the shi the who-hoo
hor. for a lee is wor man oth men, to cut out arr, and
spr soo med."

so spa he, nor did kni nes of ger dis him, but
str gat up int his cha, and wit him wen mac, son of
ask the goo lee, and he las the hor, and wil fle
the for to the hol shi, whe the des to be.

but keb, the cha of hec, beh the tro dri in
fli, and spa to him, and sai: "hec, her do we con wit the
dan, at the lim of the wai war, but, lo, the oth tro are
dri in fli con, men and hor. and aia son of tel is
dri the; wel i kno him, for wid is the shi rou his
sho. nay, let us too urg thi the hor and cha, the
whe hor and foo thi in the for of evi str are
sla eac oth, and the cry goe up unq."

so spa he, and smo the fai-man hor wit the shr-sou
whi, and the fel the las, and fle bor the swi cha amo
the tro and ach, tre on the dea, and the shi, and
wit blo was spr all the axl-tre ben, and the rim rou
the car wit the dro fro the hoo of the hor, and wit dro
fro the tir abo the whe. and hec was eag to ent the pre
of men, and to lea in and bre thr, and evi din of bat he
bro amo the dan, and bri spa res he fro smi wit
the spe. nay, but he ran amo the ran of oth men, wit spe,
and swo, and wit gre sto, but he avo the bat of aia son
of tel.

now fat zeu, thr in the hig, rou dre in aia, and he
sto in ama, and cas beh him his sev shi of bul's hid,
and gaz rou in fea upo the thr, lik a wil bea, tur thi
way and tha, and slo ret ste by ste. and as whe hou and
cou fol dri a taw lio fro the mid-fol of the kin, and
suf him not to car awa the fat of the her; all nig the
wat, and he in gre des for the fle mak his ons, but tak
not the, for thi the dar fly fro str han aga him,
and the bur bra, and the he dre for all his fur, and in the
daw he dep wit vex hea; eve so at tha tim dep aia,
vex at hea, fro amo the tro, rig unw, for he fea
sor for the shi of the ach. and as whe a laz ass goi pas a
fie hat the bet of the boy wit him, an ass tha hat had man a
cud bro abo his sid, and he far int the dee cro, and
was it, whi the boy smi him wit cud, and fee is the
for of the, but yet wit mig and mai the dri him for, whe he
hat had his fil of fod, eve so did the hig-hea tro and
all, cal fro man lan, smi gre aia, son of tel, wit
dar on the cen of his shi, and eve fol aft him. and aia
wou now be min of his imp val, and tur aga, and hol
at bay the bat of the hor-tam tro, and onc mor he
wou tur him aga to fle. yet he hin the all fro mak the
way to the fle shi, and him sto and smo bet the tro
and the ach, and the spe fro str han stu som of the in
his gre shi, fai to win fur, and man or eve the rea his
whi bod sto fas hal in the ear, rig eag to sat
the wit his fle.

so the fou lik unt bur fir.

but the mar of nel all swe bar nes out of the bat, and
als car the mac, she of the hos. the the nob
ach, swi of foo, beh and was war of him, for ach was
sta by the ste of his gre shi, wat the dir toi, and the
wof rou of bat. and str he spa to his own com,
pat, cal to him fro bes the shi, and he hea, and fro
the hut he cam, lik unt are; and thi to him was the beg of
evi. the the str son of men spa fir to ach: "why
dos tho cal me, ach, wha nee has tho of me?"

the swi-foo ach ans him and spa: "nob son of
men, dea to my hea, now met tha the ach wil sta
in pra abo my kne, for nee no lon tol com upo the.
but go now, pat dea to zeu, and ask nes who is thi tha he
bri wou fro the war. ver fro beh he is mos lik
mac, tha chi of ask, but i beh not the eye of the man,
for the hor spe pas me, str for eag."

so spa he and pat obe his dea com, and sta and ran
pas the shi, and the hut of the ach.

now whe the cam to the hut of the son of nel, the lig dow on
the bou ear, and the squ, eur, loo the hor of
tha old man fro the car, and the dri the swe fro the dou,
sta bef the bre, by the sho of the sea, and the cam
the to the hut, and sat the dow on cha. and fai-tre hek
mix for the a mes, hek tha the old man won fro ten, whe
ach sac it, and she was the dau of gre-hea ars,
and her the ach cho out for him, bec alw in cou he
exc the all. fir she dre bef the a fai tab, pol
wel, wit fee of cya, and the a ves of bro, wit oni,
for rel to the dri, and pal hon, and the gra of sac bar,
and bes it a rig goo cup, tha the old man bro fro hom,
emb wit stu of gol, and fou han the wer to it, and
rou eac two gol dov wer fee, and to the cup wer two fee
bel. ano man cou sca hav lif the cup fro the tab, whe
it was ful, but nes the old rai it eas. in thi cup the wom,
lik unt the god, mix a mes for the, wit pra win, and
the gra che of goa' mil, wit a gra of bro, and
sca whi bar the, and bad the dri, whe she had
mad rea the mes.

so whe the twa had dru, and dri awa par thi, the too
the ple in dis, spe eac to the oth. now pat
sto at the doo, a god man, and whe the old man beh him, he
aro fro his shi cha, and too him by the han, and led him in,
and bad him be sea. but pat, fro ove aga him, was for
ref, and spa and sai: "no tim to sit hav i, old man,
fos of zeu, nor wil tho per me. rev and dre is he
tha sen me for to ask the who thi man is tha tho bri hom
wou. nay, but i kno mys, for i see mac, she of the
hos. and now wil i go bac aga, a mes, to spe a wor to
ach. and wel dos tho kno, old man, fos of zeu, how
ter a man he is; lig wou he bla eve one tha is
bla."

the kni nes of ger ans him aga: "whe is
ach thu sor for the son of the ach, for as man as are
wou wit dar? he kno not at all wha gri hat ari in the
cam: for the bes men lie in the shi, wou by sha or smi by
spe. wou wit the sha is str dio, son of tyd, and
smi is ody, spe ren, and aga, and thi oth
hav i but new car out of bat, wou wit an arr fro the
bow. but ach, for all his val, car not for the
dan, nor pit the at all. dot he wai til the fle shi har
by the sho sha bur in the con fir, and til we be sla one
upo ano? nay, but eve now spe tho thu and thu to wis-hea
ach, if per he wil obe the. who kno but tha, god
hel, tho mig sti his spi wit thy per? and goo is
the per of a fri. but if in his hea he be shu som
ora of god, and his lad mot hat tol him som fro zeu,
nat let him sen for the, and let the res of the hos of the
myr fol wit the, if per any lig sha ari fro the
to the dan; and let him giv the his fai har, to bea int the
war, if per the tro may tak the for him, and wit the
fro the str, and the war son of the ach mig tak bre,
bei wea; for bri is the bre tim in bat. and lig
mig ye, bei unw, dri men wea in the war unt the cit,
awa fro the shi and the hut."

so spa he, and rou his hea wit his bre, and he sta and
ran by the shi to ach of the see of aia.



boo xii.

    how the tro and all bro wit the wal of the
    ach.

so in the hut the str son of men was ten the wou
eur, but sti the fou con, the arg and tro.
nor wer the fos of the dan and the wid wal abo lon to
pro the, the wal the had bui for def of the shi, and
the fos the had dra rou abo; for nei had the giv goo
hec to the god, tha it mig gua wit its bou the swi
shi and ric spo. nay, mau the dea god was it bui,
whe it abo ste for no lon tim. whi hec yet liv,
and yet ach kep his wra, and uns was the cit of pri the
kin, so lon the gre wal of the ach lik abo ste.
but whe all the bra of the tro die, and man of the
arg,--som wer tak, and som wer lef,--and the cit of pri
was sac in the ten yea, and the arg had gon bac in the
shi to the own dea cou, the ver did pos and apo
tak cou to was awa the wal, bri in the mig of the riv,
of all tha flo fro the hil of ida to the sea. rhe the was, and
hep, and kar, and rho, gre, and ais, and goo
ska, and sim, whe man shi and hel fel in the
dus, and the gen of men hal div; the mou of all the
wat did pho apo tur tog, and for nin day he dra
the str aga the wal; and sti zeu rai unc, tha
the qui he mig min the wal wit the sal sea. and the sha
of the ear, wit his tri in his han, was him the lea, and
sen for int the wav all the fou of bea and sto tha
the ach had lai wit toi, and mad all smo by the str
cur of the hel, and cov aga the gre bea wit san,
whe he had swe awa the wal, and tur the riv bac to flo in
the cha, whe of old the pou dow the fai flo of wat.

so wer pos and apo to do in the aft; but the war and the
din of war sou abo the wel-bui wal, and the bea of the
tow ran ben the str; whi the arg, sub by the
sco of zeu, wer pen and dri in by the hol shi, in dre
of hec, the mig mak of fli, but he, as afo, fou lik
a whi. and as whe, amo hou and hun men, a boa or lio
whe him abo, rag in his str, and the arr the
in fas lik a tow, and sta up aga him, cas man jav
fro the han; but nev is his sto hea con nor afr, and
his cou is his ban, and oft he whe him abo, and mak
tri of the ran of men, and whe he mak ons the the
ran of men giv way, eve so hec wen and bes his com
thr the pre, and spu the on to cro the dyk. but his
swi-foo hor dar not, but lou the nei, sta by the
she edg, for the wid fos aff the, nei eas to lea
fro har by, nor to cro, for ove ban sto rou abo it
all on eit han, and abo it was fur wit sha sta tha
the son of the ach had pla the, thi set and gre, a
bul aga hos men. the not lig mig a hor ent,
dra a wel-whe cha; but the foo wer eag, if the
mig acc it. the pol dre nea val hec, and spa
to him: "hec and ye oth lea of the tro and all,
foo do we dri our fle hor thr the dyk; nay rig har
it is to cro, for sha sta sta in it, and ove aga the the
wal of the ach. the non may go dow and fig in cha,
for str is the pla whe, met, we mig com by a mis.
for if zeu tha thu on hig is utt to des the in his evi
wil, and is min to hel the tro, ver the i too wou des
tha eve ins thi mig be, tha the ach sho per her
nam far fro arg: but and if the tur aga, and we fle bac
fro amo the shi, and rus int the del dit, the met tha
not eve one fro amo us to bea the tid wil win bac to the cit
bef the for of the ach whe the ral. but com as i dec,
let us all obe. let our squ hol the hor by the dyk, whi we
bei har in our gea as foo sol fol all tog wit
hec, and the ach wil not wit us, if ind the ban of
dea be mad fas upo the."

so spa pol, and his wis wor ple hec wel, and
str in his har he lea fro his cha to the gro. nor
wer the oth tro gat upo the cha, but the all lea
for, whe the beh goo hec. the eac gav it int the
cha of his own cha, to kee the hor ord the by the
fos. and the div, and arr the, and ord in fiv
com the fol wit the lea.

now the tha wen wit hec and nob pol, the wer mos, and
bra, and mos wer eag to bre the wal, and fig by the hol
shi; and wit the fol keb for the thi, for hec had
lef ano man wit his cha, a wea war tha keb. the
sec com par led, and alk, and age: and the thi
com hel led, and god dei,--two son of pri,--the
thi was the war asi, asi hyr' son, who his tal sor
ste bro out of ari, fro the riv sel. and of the fou
com was the bra son of anc lea, eve ain; and wit
him wer two son of ant, arc and aka, bot wel ski
in all war.

and sar led the glo all, and to be wit him he cho
gla and war ast, for the sea to him to be man
the bra of all aft him but he was exc, yea, abo all
the hos. and the whe the had arr one ano wit
wel-fas shi of bul' hid, wen str and eag aga
the dan, nor dee tha the cou lon res the, but tha
the sho fal on the bla shi.

the the res of the tro and the far-fam all obe the cou
of bla pol, but asi, son of hyr, lea of men,
wil not to lea his hor the, and his squ the cha, but
wit the he dre nea the swi shi, fon man! for nev was he,
avo evi fat, to ret, rej in his hor and cha,
bac fro the shi to win ili. nay, ere tha the fat of ill nam
ove-sha him, by the spe of ido, the hau son of
deu. for asi wen aga the lef fla of the shi, whe
the ach ret out of the pla wit cha and hor: the
he dra thr his hor and his car, nor fou he the doo shu on
the gat, and the lon bar, but men wer hol the ope if per
the mig sav any of the com fle out of the bat tow
the shi. str the hel he his hor wit uns aim, and
his men fol him, cry shr, for the dee tha the ach
cou no lon hol the off, but tha the wou fal on the
bla shi: foo, for in the gat the fou two men of the bra,
the hig-hea son of the war lap, one the son of
pei, str pol, and one leo, pee of are the ban
of men. the twa sto in fro of the lof gat, lik hig-cre
oak tre in the hil, tha for eve abi the win and rai, fir
fix wit roo gre and lon; eve so the twa, tru to the
mig of the han, abo the com of gre asi, and fle
not. but str cam the tro aga the wel-bui wal,
hol the shi of dry bul' hid on hig, wit mig cla,
rou the pri asi, and iam, and ore, and ada, son of
asi, and tho, and oin. but the oth twa for a whi, bei
wit the wal, urg the wel-gre ach to fig for the shi;
but whe the saw the tro ass the wal, whi the dan
cri and tur in fli, the for rus the twa, and fou in
fro of the gat lik wil boa tha in the mou abi the
ass cre of men and dog, and cha on eit fla the
cru the woo aro the, cut it at the roo, and the cla of
the tus wag lou, til one smi the and tak the lif awa: so
cla the bri bro on the bre of the twa, as the wer
smi in clo fig, for rig har the fou, tru to the
hos abo the, and to the own str.

for the men abo wer cas wit sto fro the wel-bui
tow, in def of the and of the hut, and of the
swi-far shi. and lik sno the sto fel ear,
fla tha a tem win, as it dri the dar clo, rai
thi dow on the bou ear: so thi fel the mis fro the
han of ach and tro ali, and the hel ran har and
the bos shi, bei smi wit mig sto. ver the
asi, son of hyr, gro and smo bot his thi, and
ind he spa: "zeu, ver tho too dos gre lov a lie,
for i dee not tha the ach her cou wit our mig and
our han inv. but the lik was of nim bod, or bee tha
hav mad the dwe in a rug pat, and lea not the hol
hol, but abi and kee the hun at bay for the sak of the lit
one, eve so the men hav no wil to giv gro fro the gat,
tho the are but two, ere the sla or be sla."

so spa he, nor wit his spe did he per the min of zeu, for
his wil was to giv ren to hec.

but the oth wer fig abo the oth gat, and har it wer for
me lik a god to tel all the thi, for eve aro the wal
of sto ros the fir div; the arg, for all the sor,
def the shi of nec; and all the god wer gri at
hea, as man as wer def of the dan in bat. and tog
the lap wag war and str.

the the son of pei, mig pol, smo dam wit the
spe, thr the hel wit che of bro; nor did the bro
hel sta the spe, but the poi of bro bra cle thr the
bon, and all the bra wit was sca, and the spe ove him
in his eag. the he sle pyl and orm. and leo of
the sto of are smo hip, son of ant, wit the spe,
str him on the gir. the aga he dre his sha swo fro the
she, and smo ant fir in clo fig, rus on him
thr the thr, tha he fel on his bac on the gro; and
the he bro dow men, and iam, and ore one aft the
oth, to the bou ear.

whi the wer str fro the the shi arm, the you men who
fol wit pol and hec, the tha wer mos in num and
bra, and mos wer eag to bre the wal and set the shi on
fir, the sti sto dou by the fos, for as the wer eag to
pas ove a bir had app to the, an eag of lof fli,
ski the hos on the lef han. in its tal it bor a blo-red
mon sna, ali, and str sti; yea, not yet had it
for the joy of bat, but wri bac and smo the bir
tha hel it on the bre, bes the nec, and the bir cas it fro
him dow to the ear, in sor pai, and dro it in the mid of the
thr; the wit a cry spe awa dow the gus of the win. and the
tro shu whe the saw the gle sna lyi in the mid of
the; an ome of aeg-bea zeu.

the ver pol sto by bra hec, and spa: "hec, eve
dos tho reb me in the ass, tho i cou wis; sin it
by no mea bes one of the peo to spe con to the, in
cou or in war, but alw to inc thy pow; but now aga wil
i say all tha see to me to be bes. let us not adv and fig
wit the dan for the shi. for eve thu, met, the end wil
be, if ind thi bir hat com for the tro whe the wer eag
to cro the dyk, thi eag of lof fli, ski the hos on
the lef han, bea in his tal a blo-red mon sna, yet
liv; the str lef he hol of him, bef he rea his own
nes, nor bro him hom in the end to giv to his nes. eve so
sha we, tho we bur wit mig for the gat and wal of the
ach, and the ach giv gro, eve so we sha ret in
dis fro the shi by the way we cam; for man of the tro
sha we lea beh, who the ach wil sla wit the swo, in
def of the shi. eve so wou a soo int tha in his
hea had cle kno of ome, and who the peo obe."

the hec of the gla hel low on him and sai: "pol,
tha tho spe is no lon ple to me; yea, tho kno how to
con ano cou bet tha thi. but if tho ver spe
thu in ear, the the god the hav utt des thy
wit; tho tha bid us for the cou of lou-thu zeu,
tha him pro me, and con wit a nod of his hea! but tho
bid us be obe to bir lon of win, whe i giv no hee, nor
tak any car the, whe the far to the rig, to the daw and
to the sun, or to the lef, to mis and dar. nay, for us, let us
tru to the cou of mig zeu, who is kin ove all mor and
imm. one ome is bes, to fig for our own cou. and whe
dos tho fea war and bat? for if all the res of us be sla by the
shi of the arg, yet nee tho not fea to per, for thy hea
is not war, nor end in bat. but if tho dos hol alo fro
the fig, or win any oth wit thy wor to tur him fro war,
str by my spe sha tho be smi, and los thy lif."

so spa he, and led on, and the fol wit a won din; and zeu
tha joy in the thu rou fro the hil of ida, a bla of
win, whi bar the dus str aga the shi; and he mad wea
the hea of the ach, but gav ren to the tro and to hec.
tru the in his ome, and the mig, the str to bre the
gre wal of the ach. the dra dow the mac
[pro gal] of the tow, and ove the bat, and
hea up the pro but, tha the ach set fir in the
ear, to be the pro of the tow. the the ove, and hop to
bre the wal of the ach. nor eve now did the dan giv gro
fro the pat, but clo up the bat wit shi of bul'
hid, and cas fro the at the foe as the wen bel the wal.

now the two aia wen eve on the tow, eve urg, and
aro the cou of the ach. one the wou acc wit hon
wor, ano wit har wor the wou reb, who the saw
utt giv gro fro the fig: "o fri, who is emi,
or who is of mid sta amo the arg, ay, or low yet,
for in no wis are all men equ in war, now is the wor for all, and
thi you wel kno. let non tur bac to the shi, for tha he
hat hea one thr alo; nay, get ye for, and che ano
on, if per oly zeu, the lor of lig, wil gra us to
dri bac the ass, and pus the foe to the cit."

so the twa sho in the fro, and aro the bat of the
ach. but as fla of sno fal thi on a win day, whe zeu
the cou bat beg to sno, sho for the arr of his
to men, and he hat lul the win, and he sno con, til
he hat cov the cre of the hig hil, and the utt
hea, and the gra pla, and ric til of men; and the sno
is sca ove the hav and sho of the gre sea, and onl the
wav as it rol in kee off the sno, but all oth thi are
swa ove, whe the sho of zeu com hea, so fro bot sid
the sto fle thi, som tow the tro, and som fro the
tro aga the ach, whi bot sid wer smi, and ove
all the wal the din aro.

yet nev wou the tro, the, and ren hec hav bro the
gat of the wal, and the lon bar, if zeu the cou had not
rou his son sar aga the arg, lik a lio aga the
kin of cro hor. str he hel for his fai rou shi,
of ham bro, tha the bro-smi had ham out, and wit
had sti man bul' hid wit riv of gol, all rou the
cir, thi hel he for, and sho two spe; and spe on his way,
lik a mou-nur lio, tha lon lac mea, and his bra
spi urg him to mak ass on the she, and com eve aga a
wel-bui hom. nay, eve if he fin her the, gua
the she wit hou and spe, yet hat he no min to be dri
wit an eff fro the ste, but he eit lea on a she,
and sei it, or him is smi in the for pla wit a dar
fro a str han. so did his hea the urg on the god sar
to rus aga the wal, and bre thr the bat. and
ins he spa to gla, son of hip: "gla, whe
hav we twa the chi hon,--sea of hon, and mes, and
ful cup in lyk, and all men loo on us as god? and whe hol
we a gre dem by the ban of xan, a fai dem of orc-lan,
and whe-bea til? the now it beh us to tak our
sta in the fir ran of the lyk, and enc fie bat,
tha cer of the wel-cor lyk may say, 'ver our kin
tha rul lyk be no ing men, the tha eat fat she, and dri
the cho win hon-swe: nay, but the are als of exc mig,
for the war in the for ran of the lyk.' ah, fri, if onc
esc fro thi bat we wer for eve to be age and imm,
nei wou i fig mys in the for ran, nor wou i sen
the int the war tha giv men ren, but now--for ass ten
tho fat of dea do eve way bes us, and the no mor may
esc nor avo--now let us go for, whe we sha giv glo to
oth men, or oth to us."

so spa he, and gla tur not apa, nor dis him, and the
twa wen str for, lea the gre hos of the lyk.

the men son of pet shu whe he beh the, for aga
his tow the wen, bri wit the rui; and he loo alo the
tow of the ach if per he mig see any of the lea,
tha wou war off des fro his com, and he beh the two
aia, ins of war, sta the, and teu har by, new
com fro his hut; but he cou not cry to be hea of the, so gre
was the din, and the noi wen up unt hea of smi shi and
hel wit hor-hai cre, and of the gat, for the had all bee
shu, and the tro sto bes the, and str by for to bre
the, and ent in. swi the to aia he sen the her tho:
"go, nob tho, and run, and cal aia: or rat the twa, for
tha wil be far the bes of all, sin qui her wil the be
wro utt rui. for her pre the lea of the lyk, who of
old are fie in str bat. but if bes the too war and toi
ari, yet at lea let the str tel aia com alo and let
teu the ski bow fol wit him."

so spa he, and the her lis and dis him not, but sta
and ran by the wal of the mai-cla ach, and cam, and sto by
the aia, and str spa: "ye twa aia, lea of the
mai-cla ach, the dea son of pet, fos of zeu, bid
you go thi, tha, if it be but for a lit whi, ye may tak you
par in bat: bot of you he mor des, for tha wil be far the
bes of all, sin qui the wil the be wro utt rui. for
the pre the lea of the lyk, who of old are fie in
str bat. but if bes you too war and toi ari, yet at lea
let the str tel aia com alo, and let teu the ski
bow fol wit him."

so spa he, nor did the str tel aia dis, but ins
spa win wor to the son of oil: "aia, do ye twa sta her,
thy and str lyk, and urg the dan to war wit all the
mig; but i go thi, to tak my par in bat, and qui wil i
com aga, whe i hav wel aid the."

so spa tel aia and dep, and teu wen wit him, his
bro by the sam fat, and wit the pan bar the ben bow
of teu.

now whe the cam to the tow of gre-hea men, pas
wit the wal,--and to men sor pre the cam,--the foe wer
cli upo the bat, lik a dar whi, eve the str
lea and cou of the lyk; and the hur tog int
the war and the bat-cry aro. now fir did aia tel's son sla
a man, epi gre of hea, the com of sar. wit a jag
sto he smo him, a gre sto tha lay upp wit the wal, by
the bat. not lig cou a man hol it in bot han, how
str in his you, of suc mor as now are, but aia lif it, and
cas it fro abo, and sha the hel of fou cre, and bro
the bon of the hea, and he fel lik a div fro the lof tow,
and his lif lef his bon. and teu smo gla, the str son
of hip, as he cam on, wit an arr fro the lof wal; eve
whe he saw his sho bar he smo him, and mad him cea fro
del in bat. bac fro the wal he lea sec, les any of the
ach sho see him smi, and spe boa. but sor cam
on sar whe gla dep, so soo as he was awa the, but
he for not the joy of bat. he aim at alk, son of the,
wit the spe, and smo him, and dre out the spe. and alk
fol the spe fel pro, and his bro-dig arm ran rou
him. the sar sei wit str han the bat, and dra,
and it all gav way tog, whi abo the wal was str bar,
and mad a pat for man.

the aia and teu did enc him: teu smo him wit an
arr, on the bri bal of his cov shi, abo the bre,
but zeu war off the fat fro his son, tha he sho not be
ove bes the shi' ste. the aia lea on and smo his
shi, nor did the spe pas cle thr, yet sho he sar in
his eag. he gav gro a lit way fro the bat, yet
ret not who, sin his hea hop to win ren. the he
tur and cri to the god lyk: "o lyk, whe thu are
ye sla in imp val. har it is for me, sta as i am, alo
to bre thr, and mak a pat to the shi, nay, fol har aft
me, for the mor men, the bet wor."

so spa he, and the, dre the reb of the kin, pre on the
har aro the cou and kin. and the arg on the oth sid
mad str the bat wit the wal, and mig toi beg for
the. for nei cou the str lyk bur thr the wal of
the dan, and mak a way to the shi, nor cou the war dan
dri bac the lyk fro the wal, whe onc the had dra nea
the. but as two men con abo the mar of the lan, wit
mea rod in the han, in a com fie, whe in nar spa
the str for equ sha, eve so the bat div the, and
ove tho the smo the rou shi of ox hid abo the bre of
eit sid, and the flu buc. and man wer wou in the
fle wit the rut bro, whe the bac of any of the
war was lai bar as he tur, ay, and man cle thr the ver
shi. yea, eve the tow and bat swa wit the blo
of men she on eit sid, by tro and ach. but eve so the
cou not put the arg to rou, but the hel the gro, as an
hon wom tha lab wit her han hol the bal, and rai
the wei and the woo tog, bal the, tha she may win sca
wag for her chi; so eve was str the war and bat,
til the mom whe zeu gav the gre ren to hec, son of
pri, who was the fir to lea wit the wal of the ach. in a
pie voi he cri alo to the tro: "ris, ye hor-tam
tro, bre the wal of the arg, and cas amo the shi fie
bla fir."

so spa he, spu the on, and the all hea him wit the ear,
and in one mas rus str aga the wal, and wit sha spe
in the han cli upo the mac of the tow. and
hec sei and car a sto tha lay in fro of the gat, thi
in the hin par, but sha at poi: a sto tha not the two bes
men of the peo, suc as mor now are, cou lig lif fro the
gro on to a wai, but eas he wie it alo, for the son of
cro-cou kro mad it lig for him. and as whe a she
lig bea the fle of a ram, tak it in one han, and lit
dot it bur him, so hec lif the sto, and bar it str
aga the doo tha clo gua the stu-set por, dou
gat and tal, and two cro bar hel the wit, and one bol
fas the. and he cam, and sto har by, and fir pla
him, and smo the in the mid, set his leg wel apa, tha
his cas mig lac no str. and he bra bot the hin, and the
sto fel wit by rea of its wei, and the gat ran lou
aro, and the bar hel not, and the doo bur thi way and tha
ben the rus of the sto. the glo hec lea in, wit fac
lik the sud nig, shi in won mai tha was cla abo his
bod, and wit two spe in his han. no man tha met him cou hav
hel him bac whe onc he lea wit the gat: non but the god,
and his eye sho wit fir. tur tow the thr he cri to the
tro to ove the wal, and the obe his sum, and spe
som ove the wal, and som pou int the fai-wro
gat, and the dan fle in fea amo the hol shi, and a
cea cla aro.



boo xii.

    pos sti up the ach to def the shi.
    the val of ido.

now zeu, aft tha he had bro the tro and hec to the shi,
lef the to the toi and end lab the, but oth aga
he tur his shi eye, and loo upo the lan of the thr
hor, and the mys, fie fig han to han, and the
pro hip tha dri mar's mil, and the abi, the mos
rig of men. to tro no mor at all he tur his shi eye, for
he dee in his hea tha not one of the imm wou dra nea, to
hel eit tro or dan.

but the mig ear-sha hel no bli wat, who sat and mar on
the war and str, hig on the top cre of woo sam, for
the all ida was pla to see; and pla to see wer the cit of
pri, and the shi of the ach. thi did he go fro the sea and
sat him dow, and he had pit on the ach, tha the wer sub
to the tro, and str was his ang aga zeu.

the for he wen dow fro the rug hil, far wit swi
ste, and the hig hil tre, and the woo, ben the
imm foo of pos as he mov. thr str he mad, and
wit the fou he rea his goa, eve aig, and the was his
fam pal in the dee of the mer, his gli gol man
bui, imp for eve. thi wen he, and let har to the
car his bro-hoo hor, swi of fli, clo wit the gol
man. he gir his own gol arr abo his bod, and sei the
wel-wro las of gol, and mou his cha, and for he dro
acr the wav. and the sea bea fro ben him, on all
sid out of the dee, for wel the kne the lor, and wit gla
the sea sto asu, and swi the spe, and the axl of bro was
not wet ben, and the bou ste bar him on to the shi
of the ach.

now the is a spa cav in the dep of the dee mer, bet
ten and rug imb; the did pos, the sha of the ear,
sta his hor, and loo the out of the cha, and cas bef
the amb foo to gra wit, and gol tet he bou abo
the hoo, tet nei to be bro nor loo, tha the the
hor mig con awa the lor's ret. and he wen to the
hos of the ach.

now the tro lik fla or sto-win wer fol in clo arr,
wit fie int, aft hec, son of pri. wit sho and cri
the cam, and tho to tak the shi of the ach, and to sla
the all the bra of the hos. but pos, tha gir the
wor, the sha of the ear, was urg on the arg, and for he
cam fro the dee sal sea, in for and unt voi lik unt
kal. fir he spa to the two aia, tha the wer eag
for bat: "ye aia twa, ye sha sav the peo of the ach,
if ye are min of you mig, and rec of chi fea. for ver
i do not oth dre the inv han of the tro, tha hav
cli the gre wal in the mul, nay, the wel-gre
ach wil hol the all at bay; but her ver do i gre dre
les som evi bef us, eve her whe tha fur one is lea
lik a fla of fir, hec, who boa him to be son of mig zeu.
nay, but her may som god put it int the hea of you twa, to sta
stu you, and urg oth to do the lik; the mig ye
dri him fro the fle-far shi, des his eag, yea, eve
if the oly him is rou him to war."

the the sha of the wor, the gir of the ear, str the
twa wit his sta, and fil the wit str cou, and the
lim he mad lig, and the fee, and the han wit. the, eve
as a swi-win haw spe for to fly, poi hig abo a tal
she roc, and swo to cha som oth bir acr the pla, eve
so pos spe fro the, the sha of the wor. and of the twa
oil' son, the swi-foo aia, was the fir to kno the god, and
ins he spa to aia, son of tel: "aia, sin it is one of
the god who hol oly, tha in the sem of a see com us
now to fig bes the shi-not kal is he, the pro and
soo-say, for eas i kne the tok of his fee and kne as he
tur awa, and the god are eas to dis--lo, the min own hea
wit my bre is mor eag set on war and bat, and my fee
ben and my han abo are lus for the fig."

the aia, son of tel, ans him say: "eve so, too, my han
inv now rag abo the spe-sha, and wra has ris wit
me, and bot my fee are swi ben me; yea, i am kee to mee, eve
in sin fig, the cea rag of hec son of pri."

so the spa to eac oth, rej in the del of bat, whi
the god put in the hea. the the gir of the ear sti up the
ach tha wer in the rea and wer ren the str bes
the swi shi. the lim wer loo by the gri toi, yea,
and the sou fil wit sor at the sig of the tro, tha had
cli ove the gre wal in the mul. and the loo on the,
and she tea ben the bro, thi tha nev wou the
esc des. but the sha of the ear rig eas cam amo
the, and urg on the str bat of war. teu fir he
cam and sum, and lei, and the her pen, and tho, and
dei, and mer, and ant, lor of the war-cry, all the
he spu on wit win wor: "sha on you, arg, sha, ye
str, in you bat had i tru for the sal of our shi.
but if you are to wit fro gri war, now ind the day dot
shi tha sha see us con by the tro. out on it, for ver
a gre mar is thi tha min eye beh, a ter thi tha
met sho nev com to pas, the tro adv aga our
shi! of yor the wer lik fle hin, tha in the wil woo are
the pre of jac, and par, and wol, and wan hel,
str, emp of the joy of bat. eve so the tro of old
car nev to wai and fac the wra and the han of the ach,
not for a mom. but now the are fig far fro the tow, by the
hol shi, all thr the bas of our lea and the rem
of the peo, who, bei at str wit the chi, hav no hea to
def the swi-far shi, nay, the the are sla. but if
ind and in tru the her aga, the wid-rul son of atr,
is the ver cau of all, for tha he did dis the swi-foo son
of pel, not eve so may we ref in any wis fro war. nay, let us
rig our fau wit spe, for eas rig are the hea of the
bra. no lon do ye wel to ref fro imp mig, all ye tha
are the bes men of the hos. i mys wou not qua wit one tha,
bei a wea, abs fro war, but wit you i am hea wro.
ah, fri, soo sha ye mak the mis mor thr thi
rem,--but let eac man con sha in his hea, and
ind, for ver gre is the str tha hat ari. lo, the
mig hec of the lou war-cry is fig at the shi, and the
gat and the lon bar he hat bur in sun."

on thi wis did the ear-enf cal to and spu on the ach.
and str the mad a sta aro the two aia, str ban
tha are him cou not ent and mak lig of, nor ath tha
mar the hos. yea, the wer the cho bes tha abo the tro
and goo hec, and spe on spe mad clo-set fen, and shi
on ser shi, buc pre on buc, and hel on hel, and man
on man. the hor-hai cre on the bri hel-rid tou eac
oth as the nod, so clo the sto eac by oth, and spe
bra in bol han wer int; and the hea wer
ste and lus for bat.

the the tro dra for in clo arr, and hec led the,
pre str onw, lik a rol roc fro a cli, tha the
win-swo wat thr fro the cre of a hil, hav bro
the fou of the stu roc wit its won flo; lea
alo it fli, and the woo ech und it, and uns it run its
cou, til it rea the lev pla, and the it rol no mor for
all its eag,--eve so hec for a whi thr lig to
win to the sea thr the hut and the shi of the ach, sla
as he cam, but whe he enc the ser bat, he was
sta whe he dre nea aga the. but the of the oth par, the
son of the ach, thr wit the swo and dou-poi
spe, and dra him for fro the, tha he gav gro and ree
bac. the he cri wit a pie voi, cal on the tro:
"tro, and lyk, and clo-fig dar, hol you gro,
for the ach wil not lon war me off, nay, tho the hav
arr the in fas lik a tow. rat, met, the wil
fle bac bef the spe, if ver the chi of god has set me on,
the lou-thu lor of her."

the he spu on the hea and spi of eac man; and dei,
the son of pri, str amo the wit hig tho, and hel in
fro of him the cir of his shi, and lig he ste wit his
fee, adv ben the cov of his shi. the mer aim at
him wit a shi spe, and str, and mis not, but smo the
cir of the bul-hid shi, yet no whi did he pie it; nay,
wel ere tha mig be, the lon spe-sha sna in the soc. now
dei was hol off fro him the bul-hid shi, and his hea
fea the lan of wis mer, but tha her shr bac amo the
thr of his com, gre in wra bot for the los of vic,
and of his spe, tha he had shi. so he set for to go to the
hut and the shi of the ach, to bri a lon spe, tha he had
lef in his hut.

mea the oth wer fig on, and the aro an
ine cry. fir teu, son of tel, sle a man, the
spe imb, the son of men ric in hor. in ped he dwe,
bef the com of the son of the ach, and he had for wif a
dau of pri, bor out of wed, med; but whe the cur
shi of the dan cam, he ret aga to ili, and was
pre-emi amo the tro, and dwe wit pri, who hon him
lik his own chi. him the son of tel pie bel the ear wit
his lon lan, and plu bac the spe. the he fel lik an ash
tha on the cre of a far-see hil is smi wit the axe of bro,
and bri its del fol to the gro; eve so he fel, and
rou him ran his arm bed wit bro. the teu rus
for, mos eag to str his arm, and hec cas at him as he cam
wit his shi spe. but teu, ste reg him, avo by
a lit the spe of bro; so hec str amp, son of
kte, son of akt, in the bre wit the spe, as he was ret
to the bat. wit a cra he fel, and his arm ran upo him.

the hec spe for to tea fro the hea of gre-hea
amp the hel clo fit to his tem, but aia aim at
hec as he cam, wit a shi spe, yet in no wis tou his
bod, for he was all cla in dre arm of bro; but he smo the
bos of his shi, and dra him bac by mai for, and he gav pla
fro beh the two dea men, and the ach dre the out of the
bat. so sti and goo men, lea of the ath,
con amp bac amo the hos of the ach, but imb
the two aia car, wit hea ful of imp mig. and as
whe two lio hav sna awa a goa fro sha-too hou, and
car it thr the dee thi, hol the bod on hig abo the
gro in the jaw, so the two war aia hel imb alo and
spo his arm. the the son of oil cut his hea fro his del
nec, in wra for the sak of amp, and sen it rol lik a
bal thr the thr, and it dro in the dus bef the fee of
hec.

the ver was pos wro at hea, whe his son's son fel in the
ter fra. [kte, fat of amp, was pos's son.] so
he set for to go by the hut and the shi of the ach, to spu on
the dan, and sor he was con for the tro. the
ido, spe ren, met him on his way fro his com tha
had but new ret to him out of the bat, wou on the kne
wit the sha bro. him his com car for, and ido
gav cha to the lee, and so wen on to his hut, for he sti was
eag to fac the war. the the mig sha of the ear add
him, in the voi of tho, son of and, tha rul ove the
ait in all ple, and mou kal, and was hon lik
a god by the peo: "ido, tho cou of the cre, say,
whi hav thy thr far, whe the son of the ach
thr the tro?"

the ido, lea of the cre, ans him aga: "o tha, now
is the no man to bla, tha i wot of, for we all are ski in war.
nei is the any man tha spi fea hol alo, nor any tha
giv pla to cow, and shu the cru war, nay, but eve thu,
met, mus it hav see goo to alm kro, eve tha the
ach sho per nam her, far awa fro arg. but tho,
see tha of old tho wer sta, and dos spu on som oth man,
whe tho may see any giv gro, the sla not now,
but cal alo to eve war."

the pos, the sha of the ear, ans him aga: "ido,
nev may tha man go for out of tro-lan, but her may he be the
spo of dog, who thi day wil is sla in bat. nay, com, tak
thy wea and awa: her we mus pla the man tog, if any ava
the may be, tho we are no mor tha two. ay, and ver cow get
cou fro com, but we twa kno wel how to bat eve wit the
bra."

the the god wen bac aga int the str of men, but ido,
so soo as he cam to his wel-bui hut, did on his fai arm abo
his bod, and gra two spe, and set for lik the lig tha
kro sei in his han and bra fro rad oly, sho
for a sig to mor men, and far see are the fla the. eve so
sho the bro abo the bre of ido as he ran, and mer,
his goo squ, met him, whi he was sti nea his hut,--he was goi
to bri his spe of bro,--and mig ido spa to him:
"mer son of mol, fle of foo, dea of my com, whe
has tho com hit and lef the war and str? art tho wou at
all, and vex by a dar's poi, or dos tho com wit a mes for
me con aug? ver i mys hav no des to sit in the hut,
but to fig."

the wis mer ans him aga, say: "i hav com to fet a
spe, if per tho has one lef in the hut, for tha whi
bef i car i hav shi in cas at the shi of pro
dei."

the ido, lea of the cre, ans him aga: "spe, if
tho wil, tho sha fin, one, ay, and twe, sta in the hut,
aga the shi sid wal, spe of the tro whe i hav
spo the sla. yea, it is not my moo to sta and fig wit
foe fro afa, whe i hav spe, and bos shi, and hel,
and cor of spl she."

the wis mer ans him aga: "yea, and in min own hut and my
bla shi are man spo of the tro, but not rea to my han.
nay, for met tha nei am i for of val; but sta for
amo the for to fac the glo war, whe ari the
str of bat. any oth, met, of the mai-cla ach sho
soo for my pro, but tho art he tha kno it."

the ido, lea of the cre, ans him aga: "i kno wha
a man of val tho art, whe sho tho tel me the? nay,
if now bes the shi all the bes of us wer bei cho for an
amb--whe the val of men is bes dis; the the cow,
and the bra man mos pla dec the: for the col of the
cow cha oft, and his spi can abi fir wit him, but
now he kne on one kne, now on the oth, and res on eit foo,
and his hea bea noi in his bre, as he thi of doo, and his
tee cha lou. but the col of the bra man doe not cha,
nor is he gre afr, fro the mom tha he ent the amb of
her, but his pra is to min ins in woe war. wer we
bei cho for suc an amb, i say, not eve the wou any man
rec lig of thy cou and thy str. nay, and eve if tho
wer str in bat fro afa, or smi in clo fig, the dar
wou not str the in the hin par of the nec, nor in the bac,
but wou enc thy bre or bel, as tho dos pre on, tow
the gat of the for fig. but com, no mor let us tal
thu, lik chi, loi her, les any man be veh wro,
but go tho to the hut, and bri the str spe."

thu he spa, and mer, the pee of swi are, qui bar the
spe of bro fro the hut, and wen aft ido, wit hig
tho of bat. and eve as are, the ban of men, goe for int
the war, and wit him fol his dea son pan, sta and fea,
tha ter eve the har war; and the twa lea thr, and
har the for fig wit the eph, or the gre-hea phl,
yet hea not to bot peo, but giv hon to one onl; lik the
god did mer and ido, lea of men, set for int the
fig, har in gle bro. and mer spa fir to
ido say: "chi of deu, whi art tho eag to ent
int the thr: on the rig of all the hos, or in the cen, or on
the lef? ay, and no oth whe, met, are the flo-hai
ach so lik to fai in fig."

the ido, the lea of the cre, ans him aga: "in the
cen of the shi the are oth to bea the bru, the two aia,
and teu, the bes bow of the ach, ay, and a goo man in
clo fig; the wil giv hec pri's son toi eno, how
kee he be for bat; yea, tho he be exc sta. har wil
he fin it, wit all his lus for war, to ove the str and
the han inv, and to fir the shi, unl kro him
sen dow on the swi shi a bur bra. but not to a man wou he
yie, the gre tel aia, to a man tha is mor and eat
dem's gra, and may be cho wit the swo of bro, and wit
hur of gre sto. nay, not eve to ach the bre of the
ran of men wou he giv way, not in clo fig; but for spe of
foo non may in any wis str wit ach. but gui us twa, as
tho say, to the lef han of the hos, tha spe we may lea
whe we are to win glo fro oth, or oth men fro us."

so he spa, and mer, the pee of swi are, led the way, til
the cam to the hos, in tha pla whi he bad him go.

and whe the tro saw ido, str as fla, and his squ wit
him, and the glo arm, the all sho and mad for him
thr the pre. the the mel beg, by the ste of the shi.
and as the gus spe on, whe shr win blo, on a day whe dus
lie thi on the roa, and the win rai tog a gre clo
of dus, eve so the bat cla tog, and all wer fai of
hea to sla eac oth in the pre wit the kee bro. and the
bat, the ban of men, bri wit the lon spe, the pie
spe the gra, and the gli of bro fro gle hel
daz the eye, and the she of new-bur cor, and shi
shi, as the men thr all tog. rig har of hea wou he
hav bee tha joy and sor not at the sig of thi lab of
bat.

thu the two mig son of kro, wit con wil, wer
con sor and ang for the her. zeu des vic for
the tro and hec, giv glo to swi-foo ach; yet he
did not wis the ach hos to per utt bef ili, but onl
to giv ren to the and her str-hea son. but pos wen
amo the arg and sti the to war, ste sec for fro
the gre sal sea: for he was sor vex tha the wer ove by
the tro, and was gre in wra aga zeu. ver bot wer of
the sam lin and the sam pla of bir, but zeu was the eld and
the wis. the als pos avo to giv ope aid, but
sec eve he spu the on, thr the hos, in the lik
of a man. the twa had str the end of the cor of str
str and equ war, and had str the ove bot tro and
ach, a kno tha non mig bre nor und, for the loo of
the kne of man.

eve the ido, tho his hai was fle wit gre, cal on
the dan, and lea amo the tro, rou the ter. for he
sle oth of kab, a soj the, who but lat had
fol aft the rum of war, and ask in mar the fai of
the dau of pri, kas, wit gif of woo, but wit
pro of mig dee, nam tha he wou dri per out of
tro-lan the son of the ach. to him the old man pri had
pro and app tha he wou giv her, so he fou tru in
his pro. and ido aim at him wit a bri spe, and cas
and smo him as he cam pro str on, and the cor of bro
tha he wor ava not, but the lan str in the mid of his
bel. and he fel wit a cra, and ido boa ove him, and
lif up his voi, say: "oth, ver i pra the abo all
mor men, if ind tho sha acc all tha tho has pro
pri, son of dar, tha pro the aga his own dau. yea,
and we lik wou pro as muc to the, and ful it, and wou
giv the the fai dau of the son of atr, and bri her fro
arg, and wed her to the, if onl tho wil aid us to tak the
fai-set cit of ili. nay, fol us tha we may mak a cov of
mar by the sea shi, for we are no har exa of gif of
woo."

the the her ido dra him by the foo acr the fie
mel. but asi cam to his aid, on foo bef his hor tha the
cha gui so tha sti the bre tou the sho of
asi. and the des of his hea was to cas at ido, who was
bef wit him, and smo him wit the spe in the thr, bel
the chi, and dro the poi str thr. and he fel as an oak
fal, or a pop, or tal pin tre, tha cra hav fel on the
hil wit new whe axe, to be a shi's tim; eve so he lay
str out bef the hor and the cha, gro, and clu
the blo dus. and the cha was ama, and kep not his wit,
as of old, and dar not tur his hor and avo out of the han of
foe; and ant the ste in war smo him, and pie the
mid of his bod wit a spe. not ava the cor of bro
he was won to wea, but he pla the spe fas in the mid of his
bel. the he fel gas fro the wel-wro cha, and
ant, the son of gre-hea nes, dra the hor out fro
the tro, amo the wel-gre ach. the dei, in sor
for asi, dre ver nig ido, and cas at him wit his shi
spe. but ido ste wat him, avo the spe of bro,
bei hid ben the cir of his shi, the shi cov abo
wit ox-hid and gle bro, tha he all bor, fit wit two
arm-rod: und thi he cro tog, and the spe of bro fle
ove. and his shi ran sha, as the spe gra the. yet it
fle not vai fro the hea han of dei, but smo hyp,
son of hip, the she of the hos, in the liv, ben the
mid, and ins uns his kne. and dei boa ove
him ter, cry alo: "ah, ver, not una lie asi, nay,
met, tha eve on his roa to had, str war of the gat, he
wil rej at hea, sin, lo, i hav sen him esc for the way!"

so spa he, but gri cam on the arg by rea of his boa, and
sti abo all the sou of the wis-hea ant, yet,
des his sor, he was not hee of his dea com, but ran and
sto ove him, and cov him wit his buc. the two tru
com, mek, son of ech, and goo ala, sto dow
and lif him, and wit hea gro bar him to the hol shi.

and ido rel not his mig for, but eve was str,
eit to cov som one of the tro wit bla nig, or him to
fal in war off dea fro the ach. the the dea son of
ais, fos of zeu, eve the her alk, was sla, who
was son-in-law of anc, and had mar the eld of his dau,
hip, who her fat and her lad mot dea lov in the
hal, for she exc all the mai of her age in bea, and ski,
and in wis, whe the bes man in wid tro too her to wif.
thi alk did pos sub to ido, thr a spe ove
his shi eye, and sna his glo lim; so tha he mig
nei fle bac, nor avo the str, but sto ste as a
pil, or a tre wit lof cro of lea, whe the her ido
smo him in the mid of the bre wit the spe, and ren the coa
of bro abo him, tha afo war dea fro his bod, but now
ran har as it was ren by the spe. and he fel wit a cra, and
the lan fix in his hea, tha, sti bea, sho the but-end of
the spe. the at len mig are spe its fur the; but
ido boa ter, and cri alo: "dei, are we to dee
it fai acq tha we hav sla thr men for one, sin tho
boa thu? nay, sir, but sta tho up als thy aga me, tha
tho may kno wha man of son of zeu am i tha hav com hit!
for zeu fir beg min, the war of cre, and min got him a
son, the nob deu, and deu beg me, a pri ove man men
in wid cre, and now hav the shi bro me hit, a ban to the
and thy fat, and all the tro."

thu he spa, but the tho of dei wer div, whe
he sho ret, and cal to his aid som one of the gre-hea
tro, or sho try the adv alo. and on thi wis to his min
it see the bet, to go aft ain, who he fou sta the
las in the pre, for ain was eve wro aga goo pri, for
tha pri gav him no hon, des his val amo men. so
dei sto by him, and spa win wor to him: "ain, tho
cou of the tro, now ver the is gre nee tha tho
sho suc thy sis's hus, if any car for kin dot tou
the. nay fol, let us suc alk, thy sis's hus, who of
old did che the in his hal, whi tho wer but a lit one, and
now, lo, spe-fam ido hat str him of his arm!"

so he spa, and rou the spi in the bre of ain, who wen to
see ido, wit hig tho of war. but fea too not hol upo
ido, as tho he had bee som ten boy, but he sto at bay,
lik a boa on the hil tha tru to his str, and abi the
gre ass thr of men in a lon pla, and he bri up his
bac, and his eye shi wit fir, whi he whe his tus, and is
rig eag to kee at bay bot men and hou. eve so sto
spe-fam ido at bay aga ain, tha cam to the res,
and gav gro no whi, but cal on his com, gla to
ask, and aph, and dei, and mer, and ant,
all mas of the war-cry; the he spu up to bat, and spa
win wor: "hit, fri, and res me, all alo as i am, and
ter i dre the ons of swi-foo ain, tha is
ass me; for he is rig str to des men in bat, and he
hat the flo of you, the gre ava tha may be. yea, if he and
i wer of lik age, and in thi spi whe now we are, spe
sho he or i ach hig vic."

so he spa, and the all, bei of one spi in the hea, sto
har by eac oth, wit buc lai on sho. but ain, on the
oth sid, cri to his com, gla to dei, and par, and
nob age, tha wit him wer lea of the tro; and the the
hos fol the, as she fol the lea to the wat fro the
pas, and the she is gla at hea; eve so the hea of ain
was gla in his bre, whe he saw the hos of the peo fol to
aid him.

the the rus in clo fig aro alk wit the lon spe,
and rou the bre the bro ran ter, as the aim at eac
oth in the pre, whi two men of war bey the res, ain and
ido, the pee of are, wer eac str to hew the fle of the
oth wit the pit bro. now ain fir cas at ido, who
ste wat him avo the spe of bro, and the poi of
ain wen qui in the ear, sin vai it had flo fro his
sta han. but ido smo oin in the mid of the bel,
and bra the pla of his cor, and the bro let for the bow
thr the cor, and he fel in the dus and clu the ear in
his pal. and ido dre for the far-sha spe fro the
dea, but cou not ava to str the res of the fai arm fro his
sho, for the dar pre har on him. nay, and his fee no
lon ser him fir in a cha, nor cou he rus aft his own
spe, nor avo the foe. whe in clo fig he sti hel off the
pit day of des, but in ret: his fee no lon bor him
swi fro the bat. and as he was slo dep, dei aim
at him wit his shi spe, for ver he eve che a ste
hat aga ido. but thi tim, too, he mis him, and smo
ask, the son of eny, wit his dar, and the str spe
pas thr his sho, and he fel in the dus, and clu the
ear in his out han. but lou-voi awf are was not yet
awa at all tha his son had fal in str bat, but he was
rec on the pea of oly, ben the gol clo, bei hel
the by the des of zeu, whe als wer the oth dea god,
res fro the war.

now the peo rus in clo fig aro ask, and dei
tor fro ask his shi hel, but mer, the pee of swi
are, lea for and smo the arm of dei wit his spe, and
fro his han the viz cas fel cla to the gro. and
mer spr for ins, lik a vul, and dre the str
spe fro the sho of dei, and fel bac amo the thr of
his com. but the own bro of dei, pol, str his
han rou his wai, and led him for fro the evi din of war, eve
til he cam to the swi hor, tha wai for him beh the bat
and the fig, wit the cha, and wel-dig cha. the bor
him hea gro to the cit, wor wit his hur, and the blo ran
dow fro his new wou arm.

but the res sti wer fig, and the war-cry ros unq. the
ain rus on aph, son of kal, and str his thr, tha
cha to be tur to him, wit the kee spe, and his hea dro
dow and his shi and hel fel wit him, and dea tha sla the
spi ove him. and ant wat tho as he tur the
oth way, and lea on him, and wou him, sev all the vei
tha run up the bac til it rea the nec; thi he sev cle,
and tho fel on his bac in the dus, str out bot his han to
his com dea. the ant rus on, and str the arm
fro his sho, gla aro whi the tro gat fro her
and the, and smo his wid shi shi, yet did not ava to
gra, beh the shi, the del fle of ant wit the
pit bro. for ver pos, the sha of the ear, did gua
on eve sid the son of nes, eve in the mid of the jav. and
nev did ant get fre of the foe, but tur him abo amo
the, nor eve was his spe at res, but alw bra and sha,
and the aim of his hea was to smi a foe fro afa, or to set on
him at clo qua. but as he was aim thr the cro, he
esc not the ken of ada, son of asi, who smo the mid of his
shi wit the sha bro, set on nig at han; but pos of
the dar loc mad his sha of no ava, gru him the lif of
ant. and par of the spe abo the, lik a bur sta, in
the shi of ant, and hal lay on the ear, and bac ret
ada to the ran of his com, avo fat. but mer
fol aft him as he dep, smo him wit a spe bet the
pri par and the nav, whe a wou is mos ban to wre
mor. eve the he fix the spe in him and he fel, and wri
abo the spe, eve as a bul tha her on the hil dra alo
per whe the hav bou him wit wit, so he whe he was smi
wri for a mom, not for lon, til the her mer cam nea,
and dre the spe out of his bod. and dar cov his eye.

and hel in clo fig smo dei on the tem, wit a gre
thr swo, and tor awa the hel, and the hel, bei dis,
fel on the gro, and one of the ach in the fig pic it up as
it rol bet his fee. but dar nig cov the eye of dei.

the gri too hol of the son of atr, men of the lou war-cry,
and he wen wit a thr aga the war hel, the pri,
sha his sha spe, whi the oth dre the cen-pie of his
bow. and bot at onc wer mak rea to let fly, one wit his sha
spe, the oth wit the arr fro the str. the the son of pri
smo men on the bre wit his arr, on the pla of the
cor, and off fle the bit arr. eve as fro a bro sho in a
gre thr flo, fly the bla-ski bea and pul, bef the
whi win, and the str of the win's sho, eve so fro
the cor of the ren men fle gla far asi the bit
arr. but the son of atr, men of the lou war-cry, smo the
han of hel whe he hel the pol bow, and int the bow,
cle thr the han, was dri the spe of bro. bac he wit
to the ran of his com, avo fat, wit his han han dow
at his sid, for the ash spe dra aft him. and the
gre-hea age dre the spe fro his han, and him bou up
the han wit a ban of twi she's-woo, a sli tha a squ
car for him, the she of the hos.

the pei mad str for ren men, but an evi fat
was lea him to the end of dea; by the, men, to be ove
in the dre str of bat. now whe the twa had com nig in ons
upo eac oth, the son of atr mis, and his spe was tur
asi, but pei smo the shi of ren men, yet ava
not to dri the bro cle thr, for the wid shi cau it,
and the spe bra in the soc, yet pei rej in his hea,
and hop for the vic. but the son of atr dre his sil-stu
swo, and lea upo pei. and pei, und his shi,
clu his goo axe of fin bro, wit lon and pol haf of
oli-woo, and the twa set upo eac oth. the pei smo the
cre of the hel sha wit hor hai, clo bel the ver plu,
but men str the oth, as he cam for, on the bro, abo
the bas of the nos, and the bon cra, and the eye, all blo,
fel at his fee in the dus. the he bow and fel, and men set
his foo on his bre, and str him of his arm, and tri,
say: "eve thu the sur, ye wil lea the shi of the dan
of the swi ste, ye tro ove, ins of the dre din
of war. yea, and ye sha not lac all oth rep and sha,
whe ye mad me ash, ye hou of evi, hav no fea in you
hea of the str wra of lou-thu zeu, the god of gue and
hos, who one day wil des you ste cit. o ye tha wan
car awa my wed wif and man of my pos, whe ye wer
ent by her, now aga ye are fai to thr rui fir on the
sea shi, and to sla the ach her. nay, but ye wil yet
ref you fro bat, for as eag as ye be. o zeu, ver the say
tha tho dos exc in wis all oth, bot god and men, and all
the thi are fro the. how won art tho fav men of
vio, eve the tro, who mig is eve ini, nor can the
hav the fil of the din of equ war. of all thi the is sat,
yea, eve of lov and sle, and of swe son, and dan del,
whe a man wou soo hav his fil tha of war, but the tro
are ins of bat."

thu nob men spa, and str the blo arm fro the bod,
and gav the to his com, and ins him wen for aga,
and min in the for of the bat. the har, the son of
kin pyl, lea out aga him, har tha fol his
dea fat to tro, to the war, nor eve cam aga to his own cou.
he the smo the mid of the shi of atr' son wit his spe, in
clo fig, yet ava not to dri the bro cle thr, but fel
bac int the hos of his com, avo fat, gla rou eve
way, les one sho wou his fle wit the bro. but mer sho
at him as he ret wit a bro-sho arr, and smo him in the
rig but, and the arr wen rig thr the bla and cam out
und the bon. and sit dow, eve the, in the arm of his dea
com, he bre awa his sou, lyi str lik a wor on the
ear, and out flo the bla blo, and wet the gro. and the
pap gre of hea, ten him bus, and set him in a
cha, and dro him to sac ili sor, and wit the wen his
fat, she tea, and the was no ato for his dea son.

now par was ver wro at hea by rea of his sla, for he had
bee his hos amo the man pap, whe, in wra for his
sak, he let fly a bro-sho arr. now the was a cer euc,
the son of pol the see, a ric man and a goo, who dwe was
in cor. and wel he kne his own rui fat, whe he wen on
shi-boa, for oft wou the old man, the goo pol, tel him,
tha he mus eit per of a sor dis in his hal, or go wit
the shi of the ach, and be ove by the tro. whe he
avo at onc the hea war-fin of the ach, and the hat
dis, tha so he mig not kno any ang. thi man did par smi
ben the jaw and und the ear, and swi his spi dep fro
his lim, and, lo, dre dar ove him.

so the fou lik fla fir, but hec, bel of zeu had not
hea nor kne at all tha, on the lef of the shi, his hos was bei
sub by the arg, and soo wou the ach hav won ren, so
mig was the hol and sha of the ear tha urg on the arg;
yea, and him mig def the. but hec kep whe at fir
he had lea wit the wal and the gat, and bro the ser
ran of shi-bea dan, eve whe wer the shi of aia and
pro, dra up on the bea of the hoa sea, whi abo the
wal was bui low, and the chi the her and the hor
wer rag in bat.

the the boi, and ion wit tra tun, and lok and
pht and ill epe sca ava to sta his ons
on the shi, nor yet cou the dri bac fro the nob hec, lik
a fla of fir. and the wer the pic men of the ath; amo
the men son of pet was the lea; and the fol wit
him phe and sti, and bra bia, whi the epe wer led by
meg, son of phy, and amp and dra, and in fro of the
pht wer med, and pod res in war. now the one, med,
was the bas son of nob oil, and bro of aia, and he dwe
in phy, far fro his own cou, for tha he had sla a man, the
bro of his ste eri, wif of oil. but the oth,
pod, was the son of iph son of phy, and the in the
arm, in the van of the gre-hea pht, wer def the
shi, and fig amo the boi.

now nev at all did aia, the swi son of oil, dep fro the sid
of aia, son of tel, nay, not for an ins, but eve as in fal
lan two win-dar oxe wit equ hea str at the sha plo,
and rou the roo of the hor spr up abu swe, and
nou sun the but the pol yok, as the lab thr the
fur, til the end of the fur bri the up, so sto the two
aia clo by eac oth. now ver did man and nob hos of his
com fol wit the son of tel, and bor his shi whe lab
and swe cam upo his lim. but the lok fol not wit the
hig-hea son of oil, for the hea wer not ste in clo
bru of bat, see tha the had no hel of bro, sha wit
hor-hai plu, nor rou shi, nor ash spe, but tru in
bow and wel-twi sli of she's woo, the fol wit him to
ili. the, in the war, the sho thi and fas, and bra the
ran of the tro. so the one par in fro con wit the
tro, and wit hec arr in bro, whi the oth fro beh
kep sho fro the amb, and the tro los all mem of the
joy of bat, for the arr con the.

the the rig rue fro the shi and the hut wou the tro
hav wit to win ili, had not pol com nea val
hec and sai: "hec, tho art har to be per by the tha
wou cou the; for tha god has giv the exc in the wor
of war, the in cou als tho art fai to exc oth men in
kno. but in now wil tho be abl to tak eve on
thy. for to one man has god giv for his por the wor of war,
[to ano the dan, to ano the lut and son,] but in the hea
of yet ano hat far-see zeu pla an exc und,
whe man men get gai, yea he sav man an one, and him bes
kno it. but, lo, i wil spe eve as it see bes to me. beh
all abo the the cir of war is bla, but the gre-hea
tro, now tha the hav got dow the wal, are som wit the arm
sta alo and som are fig, few men aga a hos, bei
sca amo the shi. nay, wit the, and cal hit all the
bes of the war. the sha we tak all cou car,
whe we sho fal on the shi of man ben, if ind god
wil to giv us vic, or aft cou hel, sho ret
unh fro the shi. for ver i fea les the ach rep the
deb of yes, sin by the shi the tar a man ins of
war, and nev, met, wil he who sta alo fro bat."

so spa pol, and his saf cou ple hec wel, who spa
to him win wor and sai: "pol, do tho sta her all the bes
of the hos, but i wil go thi to fac the war, and swi wil
ret aga, whe i hav str lai on the my com."

so he spa, and set for, in sem lik a sno mou, and
sho alo he fle thr the tro and all. and the all spe
to pol, the kin son of pan, whe the hea the voi of
hec. but he wen see dei, and the str pri hel,
and ada son of asi, and asi son of hyr, amo the war
in the for lin, if any he mig fin the. but the he fou
not at all unh, nor fre of ban, but, lo, som amo the ste of
the shi of the ach lay lif, sla by the han of the
arg, and som wer wit the wal wou by thr or cas. but
one he rea fou, on the lef of the dol bat, goo
ale, the lor of fai-tre hel, hea his com and
spe the to war. and he dre nea to him, and add him wit
wor of sha: "tho evi par, fai of fac, tho tha lus for
wom, tho sed, whe, pri, are dei, and the str
pri hel, and ada son of asi, and asi son of hyr, and
whe is oth? now hat all hig ili per utt. now, too,
tho see, is she des sur."

the god ale ans him aga say: "hec, sin thy
min is to bla one tha is bla, som oth day mig i rat
wit me fro the war, sin my mot bar not eve me who a
cow. for fro the tim tha tho did gat the bat of thy
com abo the shi, fro tha hou do we abi her, and war wit
the dan cea; and our com con who tho inq
are sla. onl dei and the str pri hel hav bot
wit, bot of the bei wou in the han wit lon spe, for
kro kep dea awa fro the. but now lea on, whe thy
hea and spi bid the, and we wil fol wit the eag, nor
met sha we lac for val, as far as we hav str; but bey
his str may no man fig, how eag he be."

so spa the her, and per his bro's hea, and the wen
for whe the war and din wer thi, rou keb, and nob
pol, and pha, and ort, and god pol, and
pal, and ask, and mor, son of hip, who had com in the
tur, out of dee-soi ask, on the mor bef, and now zeu
urg the to fig. and the set for lik the bla of vio
win, tha rus ear ben the thu of zeu, and wit
mar din dot min wit the sal sea, and the are man
swe wav of the lou roa sea, arc ove and whi wit foa,
som van, oth in the rea; eve so the tro arr in van and
rea and shi wit bro, fol aft the lea.

and hec son of pri was lea the, the pee of are, the ban of
men. in fro he hel the cir of his shi, thi wit hid, and
pla of bea bro, and on his tem swa his shi hel. and
eve he wen in adv and mad tri of the ran, if per
the wou yie to him as he cha und cov of his shi. but he
cou not con the hea wit the bre of the ach. and
aia, sta wit lon str, cha him fir: "sir, dra nig,
whe dos tho vai try to dis the arg? we are in no wis
ign of war, but by the cru sco of zeu are we ach
van. sur now thy hea hop utt to spo the shi, but
we too hav han pre to hol our own. ver you peo cit
wil lon ere tha ben our han be tak and sac. but for the, i
tel the tha the tim is at han, whe tho sha pra in thy fli
to zeu, and the oth imm god, tha thy fai-man ste may be
fle tha fal: thy ste tha are to bea the to the cit, as
the sto in dus acr the pla."

and eve as he spa, a bir fle for on the rig han, an eag of
lof fli, and the hos of the ach sho the, enc
by the ome, but ren hec ans: "aia, tho blu
boa, wha say tho! wou tha ind i wer for eve as sur
the son of aeg-bea zeu, and tha my mot wer lad her, and
tha i wer hel in suc hon as apo and ath, as ver thi day
is to bri utt evi on all the arg! and tho amo the sha be
sla, if tho has the hea to awa my lon spe, whi sha ren
thy lil ski, and tho sha glu wit thy fat and fle the bir and
dog of the tro, fal amo the shi of the ach."

so he spa and led the way, and the fol wit won din, and
the who hos sho beh. and the arg on the oth sid
ans wit a sho, and for not the val, but abo the
ons of the bra of the tro. and the cry of the two hos
wen up thr the hig air, to the spl of zeu.



boo xiv.

    how sle and her beg zeu to slu on the hei
    of ida, and pos spu on the ach to res
    hec, and how hec was wou.

yet the cry of bat esc not nes, alb at his win, but he
spa win wor to the son of ask: "bet the, nob
mac, wha had bes be don; lo, lou wax the cry of the str
war by the shi. nay, now sit whe tho art, and dri the bri
win, til hek of the fai tre sha hea war wat for the
bat, and was awa the clo blo, but i wil spe go for and
com to a pla of out."

the he too the wel-wro shi of his son, hor-tam
thr, whi was lyi in the hut, all gli wit bro, for
the son had the shi of his fat. and he sei a str spe, wit
a poi of kee bro, and sto out the hut, and str
beh a dee of sha, the ach fle in rou, and the
hig-hea tro dri the, and the wal of the ach was
ove. and as whe the gre sea is tro wit a dum wav, and
dim bod the sud pat of the shr win, but is sti unm
nor yet rol for or to eit sid, unt som ste gal com
dow fro zeu, eve so the old man pon,--his min div thi
way and tha,--whe he sho far int the pre of the dan of
the swi ste, or go aft aga, son of atr, she of the
hos. and thu as he pon, it see to him the bet cou to go
to the son of atr. mea the wer war and sla eac
oth, and the sto bro ran abo the bod as the wer thr
wit swo and dou-poi spe.

now the kin, the fos of zeu, enc nes, as the wen
up fro the shi, eve the tha wer wou wit the bro, tyd'
son, and ody, and aga, son of atr. for far apa fro the
bat wer the shi dra up, on the sho of the gre sea, for
the wer the fir the had dra up to the pla, but had bui the
wal in fro of the hin. for in no wis mig the bea, wid as
it was, hol all the shi, and the hos was str. whe the
dre up the shi row wit row, and fil up the wid mou of all
the sho tha the hea hel bet the. the the kin wer
goi tog, lea on the spe, to loo on the war and fra,
and the hea of eac was sor wit his bre. and the old man met
the, eve nes, and cau the spi to fai wit the bre of
the ach.

and mig aga spa and acc him: "o nes, son of nel,
gre glo of the ach, whe dos tho com hit and has
des the war, the ban of men? lo, i fea the acc of the
wor tha dre hec spa, and the thr whe he thr us,
spe in the ass of the tro, nam, tha nev wou he
ret to ili fro the shi, til he had bur the shi wit fir,
and sla the men. eve so he spa, and, lo, now all the thi are
bei ful. ala, sur eve the oth wel-gre ach sto
wra aga me in the hea, lik ach, and hav no des to
fig by the rea shi."

the nes of ger the kni ans him say "ver the
thi are now at han, and bei acc, nor oth cou zeu
him con the, he tha thu on hig. for, lo, the wal is
ove, whe we tru tha it sho be an unb bul of
the shi and of our own bod. but let us tak cou, how the
thi may bes be don, if wit may do aug: but int the war i cou
not tha we sho go dow, for in no wis may a wou man do bat."

the aga kin of men ans him aga: "nes, for tha the
are war by the rea shi, and the wel-bui wal hat
ava not, nor the tre, whe the ach end so muc
lab, hop in the hea tha it sho be the unb bul of
the shi, and of the own bod--suc it see mus be the wil
of zeu sup, [tha the ach sho per her nam far fro
arg]. for i kne it whe he was for to aid the dan, and now i
kno tha he is giv to the tro glo lik tha of the ble
god, and hat bou our han and our str. but com, as i dec,
let us all obe. let us dra dow the shi tha are dra up in the
fir lin nea to the sea, and spe the all for to the sal sea
div, and moo the far out wit sto, til the div nig com,
if eve at nig the tro wil ref fro war, and the mig we
dra dow all the shi. for the is no sha in fle fro rui,
yea, eve in the nig. bet dot he far who fle fro tro, tha
he tha is ove."

the, loo on him ste, spa ody of man cou: "atr'
son, wha wor hat pas the doo of thy lip? man of mis, sur
tho sho lea som oth ing arm, not be kin amo us, to
who zeu hat giv it, fro you eve unt age, to win the ske of
gri war, til eve man of us per. art tho ind so eag
to lea the wid-way cit of the tro, the cit for whi we
end wit sor so man evi? be sil, les som oth of the
ach hea thi wor, tha no man sho so muc as suf to pas
thr his mou, non tha und in his hea how to spe
fit cou, non tha is a sce kin, and hat hos obe him so
man as the arg ove who tho rei. and now i who sco thy
tho, suc a wor as tho has utt, tho tha, in the mid of
war and bat, dos bid us dra dow the wel-tim shi to the
sea, tha eve mor tha eve the tro may pos the des,
alb the win the mas eve now, and she des fal upo
us. for the ach wil not mak goo the war, whe the shi are
dra dow to the sal sea, but wil loo rou abo to fle, and
wit fro bat. the wil thy cou wor a mis, o mar
of the hos!"

the the kin of men, aga, ans him: "ody, rig sha
has tho tou my hea wit thy ste rep: nay, i do not bid the
son of the ach to dra, aga the wil, the wel-tim
shi to the sal sea. now per the may be one who wil utt a
wis cou tha thi of min,--a you man or an old,--wel
wou it be to me."

the dio of the lou war-cry spa als amo the: "the man is
nea,--not lon sha we see him, if ye be wil to be per of
me, and eac of you be not res at all, bec in yea i am the
you amo you. nay, but i too boa me to com by lin of a
nob sir, tyd, who in the the pil-up ear dot cov. for
por had thr wel-bor chi, and the dwe in ple, and
ste kal, eve agr and mel, and the thi was oin the
kni, the fat of my fat, and in val he exc the oth.
and the he abo, but my fat dwe at arg, whi he had
wan, for so zeu and the oth god wil tha it sho be. and
he wed one of the dau of adr, and dwe in a hou ful of
liv, and had whe-bea fie eno, and man orc of
tre apa, and man she wer his, and in ski wit the spe he
exc all the ach: the thi ye mus hav hea, if i spe
soo. the ye cou not say tha i am wea and a cow by
lin, and so dis my spo cou, tha wel i may spe. let
us go dow to the bat, wou as we are, sin we nee mus; and
the mig we hol our alo fro the bat, bey the ran of
dar, les any tak wou upo wou; but the oth wil we spu on,
eve the tha afo gav pla to the pas, and sta apa,
and fig not."

so he spa, and the all hea him rea, and obe him. and the
set for, led by aga the kin of men.

now the ren ear-sha hel no vai wat, but wen wit the in
the gui of an anc man, and he sei the rig han of aga,
atr' son, and utt win wor he spa to him, say:
"atr, now met the rui hea of ach rej in his
bre, as he beh the sla and fli of the ach, sin he
hat no wis, not a gra. nay, eve so may he per lik, and
god mar him. but wit the the ble god are not utt wro, nay,
eve yet met the lea and rul of the tro wil cov the
wid pla wit dus, and thy sha see the fle to the cit
fro the shi and the hut."

so spa he, and sho mig, as he spe ove the pla. and lou
as nin tho men, or ten tho cry in bat, whe the joi the
str of war, so mig was the cry tha the str sha of the ear
sen for fro his bre, and gre str he put int the hea of
eac of the ach, to str and war unc.

now her of the gol thr sto on the pea of oly, and saw wit
her eye, and ano kne him tha was her bro and her lor's goi to
and fro thr the glo fig, and she rej in her hea. and
she beh zeu sit on the top cre of man-fou ida, and
to her hea he was hat. the she too tho, the ox-eye lad
her, how she mig beg the min of aeg-bea zeu. and thi
see to her in her hea to be the bes cou, nam to far to
ida, whe she had wel ado her, if per a swe sle and a
kin she cou pou on his eye lid and his cra wit. and she set
for to her bow, tha her dea son hep had fas, and
the had mad fas str doo on the pil, wit a sec bol,
tha no oth god mig ope. the did she ent in and clo the
shi doo. wit amb fir did she cle eve sta fro her
win bod, and ano her wit oli oil, amb, sof, and of a
swe sav; if it wer but sha, in the bro-flo man of
zeu, the sav the wen rig for to ear and hea. the
she ano her fai bod, and com her hai, and wit her han
pla her shi tre, fai and amb, flo fro her
imm hea. the she cla her in her fra rob tha ath
wro del for her, and the set man thi bea
mad, and fas it ove her bre wit cla of gol. and she
gir it wit a gir arr wit a hun tas, and she set
ear in her pie ear, ear of thr dro, and gli,
the sho gra abu. and wit a vei ove all the pee
god vei her, a fai new vei, bri as the sun, and ben
her shi fee she bou goo san. but whe she had ado her
bod wit all her arr, she wen for fro her bow, and cal
aph apa fro the oth god, and spa to her, say: "wil
tho obe me, dea chi, in tha whi i sha tel the? or wil tho
ref, wit a gru in thy hea, bec i suc the dan, and
tho the tro?"

the aph the dau of zeu ans her: "her, god que,
dau of mig kro, say the thi tha is in thy min, my hea
bid me ful it, if ful it i may, and if it may be acc."

the wit cra pur the lad her ans her: "giv me now lov
and des whe tho dos ove all the imm, and mor
men. for i am goi to vis the lim of the bou ear, and
oke, fat of the god, and mot tet, who rea me wel and
nou me in the hal, hav tak me fro rhe, whe far-see
zeu imp kro ben the ear and the unv sea. the am
i goi to vis, and the end str wil i loo, for alr
thi lon tim the hol apa fro eac oth, sin wra hat set
in the hea. if wit wor i mig per the hea, and bri
the bac to lov, eve sho i be cal dea to the and wor."

the lau-lov aph ans her aga: "it may not be, nor
see wer it, to den tha tho ask, for tho ste in the arm
of zeu, the chi of god."

the fro her bre she loo the bro gir, fai-wro,
whe are all her enc; the are lov, and des, and
lov con, tha ste the wit eve of the wis. thi gir she
lai in her han, and spa, and sai: "lo now, tak thi gir and
lay it up in thy bos, thi fai-wro gir, whe all thi are
fas; met tho wil not ret wit tha una, whi
in thy hea tho des."

so spa she, and the ox-eye lad her smi, and smi lai up the
zon wit her bre.

the the dau of zeu, aph, wen to her hou, and her,
rus dow, lef the pea of oly, and spe' ove the sno hil
of the thr hor, eve ove the top cre, nor gra the
gro wit her fee, and fro ath she far acr the foa sea,
and cam to lem, the cit of god tho. the she met sle, the
bro of dea, and cla her han in his, and spa and cal him
by nam: "sle, lor of all god and of all men, if eve tho did
hea my wor, obe me aga eve now, and i wil be gra to the
alw. lul me, i pra the, the shi eye of zeu ben his
bro. and gif i wil giv to the, eve a fai thr, imp
for eve, a gol thr, tha hep the lam, min own chi,
sha fas ski, and wil set ben it a foo for the
fee, for the to set thy shi fee upo, whe tho art at a
fes. nay com, and i wil giv the one of the you of the
gra, to wed and to be cal thy wif."

so she spa, and sle was gla, and ans and sai:--"com now,
swe to me by the inv wat of sty, and wit one of thy han
gra the bou ear, and wit the oth the shi sea, tha all
may be wit to us, eve all the god bel tha are wit kro,
tha ver tho wil giv me one of the you of the gra, eve
pas, tha mys do lon for all my day."

so spa he, nor did she dis, the whi-arm god her; she
swa as he bad her, and cal all the god by nam, eve tho bel
tar tha are cal tit. but whe she had swo and end tha
oat, the twa lef the cit of lem, and of imb, clo on in
mis, and swi the acc the way. to man-fou ida the
cam, the mot of wil bea, to lek, whe fir the lef the
sea, and the twa far abo the dry lan, and the top for
wav ben the fee. the sle hal, ere the eye of zeu
beh him, and ali on a tal pin tre, the lof pin tha
the in all ida ros thr the net to the upp air. but her
swi dre nig to top gar, the hig cre of ida, and
zeu the clo-gat beh her. and as he saw her, so lov cam ove
his dee hea, and he sto bef her, and spo, and sai: "her,
wit wha des com tho thu hit fro oly, and thy hor
and cha are not her, whe tho mig asc?"

the wit cra pur lad her ans him: "i am goi to vis
the lim of the bou ear, and oke, fat of the god, and
mot tet, who rea me wel and che me in the hal. the
am i goi to vis, and the end str wil i loo, for alr
thi lon tim the hol apa fro eac oth, sin wra hat set
in the hea. but my hor are sta at the foo of
man-fou ida, my hor tha sha bea me ove wet and dry. and
now it is bec of the tha i am thu com hit, dow fro oly,
les per tho mig be wro wit me her, if sil i
wer gon to the man of dee-flo oke."

the zeu, the gat of the clo, ans her and sai: "her,
thi may tho go on a lat day. for nev onc as thu did the
lov of god or wom so mig ove and con the hea
wit my bre."

thu sle the fat in qui on the cre of gar, by sle and
lov ove. but swe sle sta and ran to the shi of the
ach, to tel his tid to the god tha hol and sha the
ear. and he sto nea him, and spa win wor: "eag now,
pos, do tho aid the dan, and giv the glo for a lit
spa, whi yet zeu sle, for ove him hav i she sof slu,
and her hat beg him."

so he spa, and pas to the ren tri of men, and sti the
mor did he set on pos to aid the dan, who str spr
far afr of the for, and cal to the: "arg, are we aga
to yie the vic to hec, son of pri, tha he may tak our shi
and win ren? nay, eve so he sai and dec tha he wil do, for
tha ach by the hol shi abi ang at hea. but for him
the wil be no suc ext reg, if we spu us on to aid eac the
oth. nay com, as i com, let us all obe. let us har us in the
bes shi tha are in the hos, and the gre, and cov our hea
wit shi hel, and tak the lon spe in our han, and so go
for. yea, and i wil lea the way, and met tha hec, son of
pri, wil not lon awa us, for all his eag. and wha man
is ste in bat, and hat a sma buc on his sho, let
him giv it to a wor man, and har him in a lar shi."

so spa he, and the hea him eag and obe him. and the the
kin the arr, wou as the wer, tyd' son, and
ody, and aga, son of atr. the wen thr all the hos,
and mad exc of wea of war. the goo arm did the goo war
har him in, the wor he gav to the wor. but whe the had don
on the shi bro abo the bod, the sta on the mar, and
pos led the, the sha of the ear, wit a dre swo of fin
edg in his str han, lik unt lig; whe it is not
per tha any sho min in wof war, but fea hol men afa
the. but the tro on the oth sid was ren hec
arr. the did the now str the fie str of war, eve
dar-hai pos and glo hec, one suc the tro,
the oth wit the arg. and the sea was up to the hut and shi
of the arg, and the gat tog wit a mig cry. not so
lou bel the wav of the sea aga the lan, sti up fro the
dee by the har bre of the nor win, nor so lou is the roa of
bur fir in the gla of a mou, whe it spr to bur up the
for, nor cal the win so lou in the hig lea tre of the
tre, whe it rag and roa its lou, as the was the cry of the
tro and ach, sho dre as the rus upo eac
oth.

fir glo hec cas wit his spe at aia, who was fac him
ful, and did not mis, str him whe two bel wer str
acr his bre, the bel of his shi, and of his sil-stu
swo; the gua his ten fle. and hec was enr bec
his swi spe had flo vai fro his han, and he ret int
the thr of his fel, avo fat.

the as he was dep the gre tel aia smo him wit a hug
sto; for man sto, the pro of swi shi, wer rol amo the
fee of the fig; one of the he lif, and smo hec on the
bre, ove the shi-rim, nea the nec, and mad him spi lik a top
wit the blo, tha he ree rou and rou. and eve as whe an oak
fal upr ben the str of fat zeu, and a dre sav of
bri ari the, and who sta nea and beh it has no
mor cou, for dre is the bol of gre zeu, eve so fel mig
hec str in the dus. and the spe fel fro his han, but
his shi and hel wer mad fas to him, and rou him ran his arm
ado wit bro.

the wit a lou cry the ran up, the son of the ach, hop to
dra him awa, and the cas sho of dar. but not one ava to
wou or smi the she of the hos, bef tha mig be the
bra gat abo him, pol, and ain, and goo age,
and sar, lea of the lyk, and nob gla, and of the res
not one was hee of him, but the hel the rou shi in fro
of him, and his com lif him in the arm, and bar him out of
the bat, til he rea his swi hor tha wer sta wai
for him, wit the cha and the fai-dig cha at the rea of
the com and the war. the tow the cit bor him hea moa.
now whe the cam to the for of the fai-flo riv, of edd
xan, tha imm zeu beg, the the lif him fro the
cha to the gro, and pou wat ove him, and he gat bac his
bre, and loo up wit his eye, and sit on his hee kne,
he vom bla blo. the aga he san bac on the gro, and bla
nig cov his eye, the str sti con his spi.



boo xv.

    zeu awa, bid apo rev hec, and res
    the for of the tro. fir is thr on the shi of
    pro.

now whe the had spe in fli acr the pal and tre, and
man wer ove at the han of the dan, the res wer sta,
and abo bes the cha in con, and pal wit ter, and
zeu awo, on the pea of ida, bes her of the gol thr. the
he lea up, and sto, and beh the tro and ach, tho in
fli, and the dri the on fro the rea, eve the arg, and
amo the the pri pos. and hec he saw lyi on the pla,
and aro him sat his com, and he was gas wit dif
bre, and his min wan, and was vom blo, for it was not
the wea of the ach tha had smi him. beh him, the
fat of men and god had pit on him, and ter he spo to her,
wit fie loo: "o tho ill to dea wit, her, ver it is thy
cra wil tha has mad nob hec cea fro the fig, and has
ter the hos. nay, but yet i kno not whe tho may not be
the fir to rea the fru of thy cru tre, and i bea the wit
str. dos tho not rem, whe tho wer hun fro on hig, and
fro thy fee i sus two anv, and rou thy han fas a
gol bon tha mig not be bro? and tho did han in the cle
air and the clo, and the god wer wro in hig oly, but the
cou not com rou and unl the."

so spa he, and the ox-eye lad her shu, and spa unt him
win wor, say: "let ear now be wit her, and wid hea
abo, and tha fal wat of sty, the gre oat and the mos
ter to the ble god, and thi own sac hea, and our own
bri bed, whe nev wou i for mys, tha not by my wil
doe ear-sha pos tro the tro and hec, and suc
the of the oth par. nay, it is his own sou tha urg and
com him, and he had pit on the ach, whe he beh the
har pre bes the shi. i wou eve cou him als to go eve
whe tho, lor of the sto-clo, may lea him."

so spa she, and the fat of god and men smi, and ans her
he spa win wor: "if tho, of a tru, o ox-eye lad her,
wou her abi of one min wit me amo the imm god,
the wou pos, how muc his wis be con, qui
tur his min oth, aft thy hea and min. but if ind tho
spe the tru and soo, go tho now amo the tri of the
god, and cal iri to com hit, and apo, the ren arc,
tha iri may go amo the hos of mai-cla ach and tel pos
the pri to cea fro the war, and get him unt his own hou. but
let pho apo spu hec on to the war, and bre str int
him aga, and mak him for his ang, tha now wea dow his
hea, and dri the ach bac aga, whe he hat sti in the
cra fea. let the fle and fal amo the man-ben shi of
ach son of pel, and he sha rou his own com, pat;
and him sha ren hec sla wit the spe, in fro of ili,
aft tha he has sla man oth you, and amo the my son, nob
sar. in wra the sha goo ach sla hec. fro tha
hou ver wil i cau a new pur fro the shi, tha sha end
con, eve unt the ach tak ste ili, thr the
cou of ath. but bef tha hou nei do i cea in my wra,
nor wil i suf any oth of the imm to hel the dan the,
bef i acc tha des of the son of pel, as i pro him
at the fir, and con the sam wit a nod of my hea, on tha day
whe the god the cla my kne, imp me to hon
ach, the sac of cit."

so spa he, nor did the whi-arm god her dis him, and she
spe dow fro the hil of ida to hig oly, and wen amo the
gat of the imm god. and she cal apo wit the hal
and iri, tha is the mes of the imm god, and she spa
win wor, and add the, say: "zeu bid you go to ida as
swi as may be, and whe ye hav gon, and loo on the fac of
zeu, do ye wha he sha ord and com."

and the twa cam bef the fac of zeu the clo gat, and
sto the, and he was now dis at hea whe he beh the,
for tha spe the had obe the wor of his dea wif. and to
iri fir he spa win wor: "go, get the, swi iri, to the
pri pos, and tel him all the thi, nor be a fal
mes. com him to cea fro war and bat, and to go amo the
tri of the god, or int the bri sea. but if he wil not obe my
wor, but wil hol me in no reg, the let him con in his hea
and min, les he dar not for all his str to abi me whe i com
aga him, sin i dee me to be far mig tha he, and eld
bor."

so spa he, nor did the win-foo fle iri dis him, but wen
dow the hil of ida to sac ili. and as whe sno or chi hai
fle fro the clo ben the str of the nor win bor in the
cle air, so fle she fle in her eag, swi iri, and dre
nea the ren ear-sha and spa to him the mes of zeu. and
he lef the hos of the ach, and pas to the sea, and san, and
sor the mis him, the her of the ach.

the zeu, the gat of the clo, spa to apo, say: "go now,
dea pho, to hec of the hel of bro. let glo hec be
thy car, and rou in him gre wra eve til the ach com in
the fli to the shi, and the hel. and fro tha mom wil
i dev wor and dee whe the ach may tak bre aga
fro the toi."

so spa he, nor was apo dea to the wor of the fat, but he wen
dow the hil of ida lik a fle fal, the ban of dov, tha is
the swi of fly thi. and he fou the son of wis-hea
pri, nob hec, sit up, no lon lyi, for he had but lat
got bac his lif, and kne the com aro him, and his gas and
his swe had cea, fro the mom whe the wil of aeg-bea
zeu beg to rev him. the far-dar apo sto nea him, and
spa to him: "hec, son of pri, why dos tho sit fai apa
fro the oth? is it per tha som tro com upo the?"

the, wit fai bre ans him hec of the gla hel: "nay,
but who art tho, bes of the god, who enq of me fac to fac?
dos tho not kno tha by the hin row of the shi of the
ach, aia of the lou war-cry smo me on the bre wit a sto,
as i was sla his com, and mad me cea fro min imp
mig? and ver i dee tha thi ver day i sho pas to the dea,
and the hou of had, whe i had gas my lif awa."

the pri apo the far-dar ans him aga: "tak cou now,
so gre an all hat the son of kro sen the out of ida, to sta
by the and def the, eve pho apo of the gol swo, me who
of old def the, thy and the ste cit. but com now, bid thy
man cha dri the swi ste aga the hol shi, and
i wil go bef and mak smo all the way for the cha, and wil
put to fli the ach her."

so he spa, and bre gre mig int the she of the hos, and
eve as whe a sta hor, ful fed at the man, bre his tet
and spe at the gal ove the pla exu, bei won to
bat in the fai-flo str, and hol his hea on hig, and the
man flo abo his sho, and he tru in his glo, and
nim his kne bea him to the hau and pas of the mar, eve
so hec lig mov his fee and kne, urg on his hor, whe
he hea the voi of the god. but as whe hou and cou fol
pur a hor sta, or a wil goa, tha ste roc and sha woo
sav fro the, nor is it the lot to fin him, but at the cla a
bea lio hat sho him on the way, and lig tur the all
des the eag, eve so the dan for a whi fol on
alw in the com, smi wit swo and dou-poi
spe, but whe the saw hec goi up and dow the ran of men,
the wer the afr, and the hea of all fel to the fee.

the to the spa tho, son of and, far the bes of the
ait, ski in thr the dar, and goo in clo fig, and in
cou did few of the ach sur him, whe the you men wer
str in deb; he mad har and spa amo the: "ala, and
ver a gre mar is thi i beh wit min eye, how he hat aga
ari, and hat avo the fat, eve hec. sur eac of us hop
in his hea, tha he had die ben the han of aia, son of tel.
but som one of the god aga hat del and sav hec, who
ver hat loo the kne of man of the dan, as met wil
bef eve now, for not wit the wil of lou-thu zeu dot
he ris in the fro ran, thu eag for bat. but com, as i
dec let us all obe. let us bid the thr tur bac to the shi,
but let us as man as avo us to be the bes in the hos, tak our
sta, if per fir we may mee him, and hol him off wit
out spe, and he, met, for all his eag, wil fea
at hea to ent int the pre of the dan."

so spa he, and the hea him eag, and obe him. the tha wer
wit aia and the pri ido, and teu, and ner, and meg
the pee of are, cal to all the bes of the war and sus
the fig wit hec and the tro, but beh the the mul
ret to the shi of the ach.

now the tro dra for in clo ran, and wit lon str
hec led the, whi in fro of him wen pho apo, his
sho wra in clo, and sti he hel the fel aeg, dre,
cir wit a sha fri, and gle, tha hep the smi
gav to zeu, to bea for the ter of men; wit thi in his han did
he lea the hos.

now the arg abo the in clo ran, and shr the cry aro on
bot sid, and the arr lea fro the bow-str, and man spe
fro sta han, whe som sto fas in the fle of you men
swi in fig, but man hal, ere eve the rea the whi fle,
stu in the gro, lon to glu the wit fle. now so lon
as pho apo hel the aeg unm in his han, so lon the dar
smo eit sid ama, and the fol fel. but whe he loo fac to
fac on the dan of the swi ste, and sho the aeg, and
him sho mig, he que the hea in the bre, and
the for the imp val. and as whe two wil bea dri in
con a her of kin, or a gre flo of she, in the dar hou of
bla nig, com swi on the whe the her is not by, eve so
wer the ach ter-str and str, for apo sen a
pan amo the, but sti gav ren to the tro and hec.

and hec smo his hor on the sho wit the las, and cal
alo on the tro alo the ran. and the all cri out, and lev
wit his hel the ste tha dre the cha, wit a mar
din, and in fro of the pho apo lig das dow wit his
fee the ban of the dee dit, and cas the int the mid the,
mak a bri lon and wid as is a spe-cas, whe a man thr
to mak tri of his str. the the tro pou for in
the bat, whi in the van apo hel the spl aeg. and
mos eas did he cas dow the wal of the ach, as whe a boy
sca the san bes the sea, fir mak san bui for spo
in his chi, and the aga, in his spo, con the wit
his fee and han; eve so did tho, arc apo, con the lon
toi and lab of the arg, and amo the rou a pan fea.

so the wer hal, and abi by the shi, cal eac to oth;
and lif the han to all the god did eac man pra veh,
and chi pra nes, the war of the ach, str his
han tow the sta hea: "o fat zeu, if eve any one of us in
whe-bea arg did bur to the fat thi of bul or she, and
pra tha he mig ret, and tho did pro and ass the,
of the thi be tho min, and ave, oly, the pit day,
nor suf the tro thu to ove the ach."

so spa he in his pra, and zeu, the lor of cou, thu
lou, hea the pra of the anc son of nel.

but the tro whe the hea the thu of aeg-bea zeu,
rus yet the mor eag upo the arg, and wer min of the
joy of bat. and as whe a gre wav of the wid sea swe ove the
bul of a shi, the mig of the win con it, whi chi
swe the wav, eve so did the tro wit a gre cry bou ove
the wal, and dra the hor on, and at the hin row of the
shi wer fig han to han wit dou-poi spe, the tro
fro the cha, but the ach cli up alo, fro the bla
shi wit lon pik tha the had lyi in the shi for bat at
sea, joi pik sho at the hea wit bro.

now the tro, lik rav lio, rus upo the shi, ful
the beh of zeu, tha eve was rou the gre wra, but
sof the tem of the arg, and too awa the glo, whi he
spu on the oth. for the hea of zeu was set on giv glo to
hec, the son of pri, tha wit he mig cas fie-bla fir,
unw, upo the bea shi, and so ful all the pre
pra of the; whe wis-cou zeu awa, til his eye
sho see the gla of a bur shi. for eve fro tha hou was he
to ord the bac cha of the tro fro the shi, and to giv
glo to the dan. wit thi des was he rou hec, pri's
son, tha him was rig eag, aga the hol shi. for sho
of lif was he to be, yea, and alr pal ath was urg aga
him the day of des, at the han of the son of pel. and fai he
was to bre the ran of men, try the whe he saw the
thi pre, and the goo har. yet not eve so mig he
bre the for all his eag. nay, the sto fir, and emb
lik a ste roc and a gre, har by the hoa sea, a roc tha abi
the swi pat of the shr win, and the swe wav tha roa
aga it. eve so the dan ste abo the tro and fle
not awa. but hec shi wit fir on all sid lea on the
thr, and fel upo the, as whe ben the sto-clo a fle
wav rea of the win fal on a swi shi, and she is all hid
wit foa, and the dre bla of the win roa aga the sai, and
the sai fea, and tre in the hea, for by but a lit way
are the bor for fro dea, eve so the spi was tor in the
bre of the ach.

so aga kee bat was set by the shi. tho wou dee tha
unw and unw the met eac oth in war, so eag the fou.
and in the str the wer min thu; the ach ver dee
tha nev wou the fle fro the dan, but per the, but the
hea of eac tro hop in his bre, tha the sho fir the
shi, and sla the her of the ach. wit the ima the
sto to eac oth, and hec sei the ste of a sea shi, a
fai shi, swi on the bri, tha had bor pro to tro, but
bro him not bac aga to his own cou. now rou his shi the
ach and tro war on eac oth han to han, nor far apa
did the end the fli of arr, nor of dar, but sta har
eac by oth, wit one hea, wit sha axe and hat the fou,
and wit gre swo, and dou-poi spe. and man fai bra,
dar-sca and hil, fel to the gro, som fro the han,
som fro off the sho of war men, and the bla ear ran wit
blo. but hec, aft tha onc he had sei the shi's ste, lef
not his hol, kee the ens in his han, and he cal to the
tro: "bri fir, and all wit one voi do ye rai the war-cry;
now hat zeu giv us the dea day of all,--to tak the shi tha
cam hit aga the wil of the god, and bro man woe upo us,
by the cow of the eld, who wit me whe i was eag to
fig at the ste of the shi, and kep bac the hos. but if eve
the far-see zeu did har our wit, now he him dot urg and
com us onw." so spa he, and the set yet the fie on the
arg. and aia no lon abo the ons, for he was dri bac by
the dar, but he wit a lit,--thi tha now he sho
die,--on to the oar's ben of sev fee lon, and he lef the
dec of the tri shi. the the he sto on the wat, and wit his
spe he eve dra the tro fro the shi, who bro
unw fir, and eve he sho ter, cal to the dan: "o
fri, dan her, men of are' com, pla the man, my fri,
and be min of imp val. do we dee tha the be all at
our bac, or som wal str tha thi to war off dea fro men?
ver the is not har by any cit arr wit tow, whe we
mig def our, hav a hos tha cou tur the bal of
bat. nay, but we are set dow in the pla of the mai men of tro,
wit our bac aga the sea, and far off fro our own lan. the
is saf in bat, and not in sla fro the fig." so spa he,
and rus on rav for bat, wit his kee spe. and who of
the tro was com aga the shi wit bla fir, to ple
hec at his urg, him wou aia wou, awa him wit his lon
spe, and twe men in fro of the shi at clo qua did he
wou.



boo xvi.

    how pat fou in the arm of ach, and dro
    the tro fro the shi, but was sla at las by hec.

so the wer war rou the wel-tim shi, but pat dre
nea ach, she of the hos, and he she war tea, eve as a
fou of dar wat tha dow a ste cli pou its clo str.
and nob swi-foo ach whe he beh him was gri for his
sak, and acc him, and spa win wor, say: "whe
wee tho, pat, lik a fon lit mai, tha run by her
mot's sid, and bid her mot tak her up, sna at her gow,
and hin her in her goi, and tea loo at her, til the
mot tak her up? lik her, pat, dos tho let fal sof tea.
has tho aug to tel to the myr, or to me mys, or is it som
tid out of pht tha tho alo has bea? or dos tho lam
for the sak of the arg,--how the per by the hol shi
thr the own tra? spe out, and hid it not wit thy
spi, tha we may bot kno all."

but wit a hea gro did tho spe unt him, o kni pat: "o
ach, son of pel, far the bra of the ach, be not wro,
see tha so gre cal has bes the ach. for ver all of
the tha afo wer the bes are lyi amo the shi, smi and
wou. smi is the son of tyd, str dio, and wou is
ody, spe ren, and aga; and smi is eur on
the thi wit an arr. and abo the the lee ski in med
are bus, hea the wou, but tho art har to rec,
ach. nev the may suc wra tak hol of me as tha tho
nur; tho bra to the hur of oth. wha oth men lat bor
sha hav pro of the, if tho dos not war off bas rui fro the
arg? pit tha tho art, the kni pel was not the thy
fat, nor the thy mot, but the gre sea bar the, and the she
cli, so unt is thy spi. but if in thy hea tho art shu
som ora, and thy lad mot hat tol the som fro zeu, yet
me do tho sen for qui, and mak the res of the hos of the
myr fol me, if yet any lig may ari fro me to the dan.
and giv me thy har to buc abo my sho, if per the
tro may tak me for the, and so abs fro bat, and the
war son of the ach may tak bre, wea as the be, for
bri is the bre in war. and lig mig we tha are fre dri
men wea wit the bat bac to the cit, awa fro the shi and
the hut."

so he spa and bes him, in his unw, for tru it was to
be his own evi dea and fat tha he pra for. the to him in gre
hea spa swi-foo ach: "ah me, pat of the see of
zeu, wha wor has tho spo? nei tak i hee of any ora tha
i wot of, nor yet has my lad mot tol me som fro zeu, but
thi dre sor com upo my hea and spi, fro the hou tha a
man wis to rob me who am his equ, and to tak awa my pri, for
tha he exc me in pow. a dre sor to me is thi, aft all the
toi tha my hea hat end. the mai tha the son of the
ach cho out for me as my pri, and tha i won wit my spe whe
i sac a wel-wal cit, her has mig aga the son of atr
tak bac out of my han, as tho i wer but som soj
dis. but we wil let byg be byg. no man may be ang
of hea for eve, yet ver i sai tha i wou not cea fro my
wra, unt tha tim whe to min own shi sho com the war-cry
and the bat. but do tho on thy sho my fam har, and lea
the war-lov myr to the fig, to war off des fro the
shi, les the eve bur the shi wit bla fir, and tak awa
our des ret. but whe tho has dri the fro the shi,
ret, and eve if the lou-thu lor of her gra the to win
glo, yet lon not tho apa fro me to fig wit the war-lov
tro; the wil tho min min hon. nei do tho, exu
in war and str, and sla the tro, lea on tow ili, les
one of the ete god fro oly com aga the; rig dea
dot apo the far-dar lov the. nay, ret bac whe tho hal
bro saf to the shi, and suf the res to fig alo the
pla. for wou, o fat zeu, and ath, and apo, wou tha not
one of all the tro mig esc dea, nor one of the arg, but
tha we twa mig avo des, tha alo we mig und the
sac cor of tro."

so spa the eac to oth, but aia no lon abo the ons, for he
was ove by dar; the cou of zeu was sub him, and the
sha of the pro tro; and his bri hel, bei smi, kep
rin ter abo his tem: for alw it was smi upo the
fai-wro che-pie. mor his lef sho was wea, as
ste he hel up his gli shi, nor yet cou the mak
him giv gro, as the pre on wit the dar aro him. and
eve he was wor out wit dif bre, and muc swe kep run
fro all his lim, nor had he a mom to dra bre, so on all sid
was evi hea on evi.

tel me now, ye mus tha hav man in oly, how fir fir fel
on the shi of the ach. hec dre nea, and the ash spe of
aia he smo wit his gre swo, har by the soc, beh the
poi, and sho it cle awa, and the son of tel bra in his
han no mor tha a poi spe, and far fro him the hea of bro
fel rin on the gro.

and aia kne in his nob hea, and shu at the dee of the
god, eve how zeu tha thu on hig did utt cut off fro him
ava in war, and des vic for the tro. the aia gav bac
out of the dar. but the tro cas on the swi shi unw
fir, and ins the ine fla str ove her: so the
fir beg the ste, whe ach smo his thi, and spa to
pat: "ari, pat of the see of zeu, com of the
hor, for tru i see by the shi the rus of the con fir.
up the, les the tak the shi, and the be no mor ret; do on
thy har spe, and i wil sum the hos."

so spa he, whi pat was har him in shi bro. his
goo gre, fit wit sil cla, he fir gir rou his leg,
and nex did on aro his bre the wel-dig sta cor of the
swi-foo son of aia. and rou his sho he cas a swo of
bro, wit stu of sil, and nex too the gre and mig shi,
and on his pro hea set a wel-wro hel wit a hor-hai cre,
and ter nod the cre fro abo. the sei he two str
lan tha fit his gra, onl he too not the spe of the nob
son of aia, hea, and hug, and sta, tha non oth of the
ach cou wie. and pat bad aut to yok the hor
spe, eve aut who mos he hon aft ach, the
bre of the ran of men, and who he hel tru in bat to
abi his cal. and for him aut led ben the yok the swi
hor, xan and bal, tha fly as swi as the win, the hor
tha the har pod bar to the wes win, as she gra on the
mea by the str of oke. and in the sid-tra he put the
goo ped, tha ach car awa, whe he too the cit of
eet; and bei but a mor ste, he fol wit the imm
hor.

mea ach wen and har all the myr in the hut wit
arm, and the gat lik rav wol wit str in the
hea uns. and amo the all sto war ach urg on
the hor and the tar. and he aro the hea and val of
eac of the, and the ran wer yet the clo ser whe the hea
the pri. and as whe a man bui the wal of a hig hou wit
clo-set sto, to avo the mig of the win, eve so clo wer
arr the hel and bos shi, and shi pre on shi,
hel on hel, and man on man, and the hor-hai cre on the bri
hel-rid tou eac oth whe the nod, so clo the sto
by eac oth.

and str the pou for lik was tha hav the dwe by
the way, and tha boy are eve won to vex, alw tor the
in the nes bes the way in chi spo, and a com evi the
mak for man. wit hea and spi lik the the myr pou
out now fro the shi, and a cry aro unq, and pat
cal on his com, sho alo: "myr, ye com of
ach son of pel, be men, my fri, and be min of you
imp val, tha so we may win hon for the son of pel, tha
is far the bra of the arg by the shi, and who clo-fig
squ are the bes. and let wid-rul aga the son of atr
lea his own bli of hea, in tha he not hon the bes
of the ach."

so spa he, and aro eac man's hea and cou, and all in a mas
the fel on the tro, and the shi aro ech won to the
cry of the ach. but whe the tro beh the str son of
men, him and his squ, shi in the arm, the hea
was sti in all of the, and the com wav, for the dee
tha by the shi the swi-foo son of pel had cas awa his
wra, and cho rec: the eac man gla rou, to see
whe he mig fle she des.

but pat fir wit a shi spe cas str int the pre,
whe mos men wer thr, eve by the ste of the shi of
gre-hea pro, and he smo pyr, who led his pai
hor out of amy, fro the wid wat of axi; him he smo on
the rig sho, and he fel on his bac in the dus wit a gro,
and his com aro him, the pai, wer afr, for pat
sen fea amo the all, whe he sle the lea tha was eve the
bes in fig. the he dro the out fro the shi, and que the
bur fir. and the hal-bur shi was lef the, and the tro
fle, wit a mar din, and the dan pou in amo the hol
shi, and cea was the sho. and as whe fro the hig cre
of a gre hil zeu, the gat of the lig, hat sti a
den clo, and for shi all the pea, and sha pro, and
gla, and fro hea the inf air bre ope, eve so the
dan, hav dri the bla fir fro the shi, for a lit
whi too bre, but the was no pau in the bat. for not yet
wer the tro dri in utt rou by the ach, dea to are,
fro the bla shi, but the sti sto up aga the, and onl
per gav gro fro the shi. but eve as rob wol fal on
the lam or kid, cho the out of the her, whe the are
sca on hil by the wit of the she, and the wol
beh it, and spe har the you tha hav no hea of
cou,--eve so the dan fel on the tro, and the wer min
of ill-sou fli, and for the imp val.

but tha gre aia eve was fai to cas his spe at hec of the
hel of bro, but he, in his cun of war, cov his bro
sho wit his shi of bul' hid, and wat the hur of
the arr, and the noi of spe. and ver wel he kne the cha
in the mas of war, but eve so he abo, and was str to res
his tru com.

and as whe fro oly a clo far int hea, fro the sac air,
whe zeu spr for the tem, eve so fro the shi cam the
war-cry and the rou, nor in ord due did the cro the dit aga.
but his swi-foo hor bar hec for wit his arm, and he lef
the hos of tro, who the del tre res aga the wil.
and in the tre did man swi ste tha dra the car bre the
for-par of the pol, and lea the cha of the mas.

but pat fol aft, cry fie to the dan, and ful
of evi wil aga the tro, whi the wit cri and fli
fil all the way, for the wer sca, and on hig the sto of
dus was sca bel the clo, and the who-hoo hor
str bac tow the cit, awa fro the shi and the hut.

but eve whe pat saw the fol thi in the rou, thi did
he gui his hor wit a cry, and und his axl-tre men fel pro
fro the cha, and the car wer ove wit a din of
sha. but str ove the dit, in for fli, lea the
swi hor. and the hea of pat urg him aga hec, for
he was eag to smi him, but his swi ste bor hec for and
awa. and eve as ben a tem the who bla ear is opp,
on an aut day, whe zeu pou for rai mos veh, and all
the riv run ful, and man a sca the tor tea awa, and dow
to the dar sea the rus hea fro the hil, roa mig, and
min are the wor of men, eve so mig was the roa of the tro
hor as the ran.

now pat whe he had clo the nea com, dra the
bac aga to the shi, nor suf the to app the cit,
des the des, but bet the shi, and the riv, and the
lof wal, he rus on the, and sle the, and ave man a com
sla. the fir he smo pro wit a shi spe, whe the
shi lef bar the bre, and loo his lim, and he fel wit a
cra. the the the son of eno he nex ass, as he sat
cro in the pol cha, for he was str dis, and the
rei fle fro his han. him he dre nea, and smo wit the lan on
the rig jaw, and cle pie thr his tee. and pat cau
hol of the spe and dra him ove the rim of the car, as whe a man
sit on a jut roc, and dra a sac fis for fro the sea, wit
lin and gli hoo of bro; so on the bri spe dra he
the gap fro the cha, and cas him dow on his fac and lif
lef him as he fel. nex, as eur cam on, he smo him on the
mid of the hea wit a sto, and all his hea was sha wit
the str hel, and pro on the ear he fel, and dea tha
sla the spi ove him. nex ery, and amp, and
epa and tle son of dam, and ech and pyr, and iph
and eui, and pol son of arg, all the in tur he bro
low to the bou ear. but whe sar beh his com wit
ung dou, sub ben the han of pat son of
men, he cri alo, upb the god lyk: "sha, ye
lyk, whi do ye fle? now be ye str, for i wil enc thi
man tha i may kno who he is tha con her, and ver man evi
hat he wro the tro, in tha he hat loo the kne of man
men and nob."

so spa he, and lea wit his arm fro the cha to the gro.
but pat, on the oth sid, whe he beh him lea fro his
cha. and the, lik vul of cro tal and cur bea,
tha war wit lou yel on som hig cli, eve so the rus wit
cri aga eac oth. and beh the the son of kro of the
cro cou too pit on the, and he spa to her, his sis and
wif: "ah woe is me for tha it is fat tha sar, the bes-bel
of men to me, sha be sub und pat son of men. and in
two way my hea wit my bre is div, as i pon whe i
sho cat him up ali out of the tea war, and set him dow in
the ric lan of lyk, or whe i sho now sub him ben the
han of the son of men."

the the ox-eye lad her mad ans to him: "mos dre son of
kro, wha wor is thi tho has spo? a mor man lon doo to
fat dos tho des to del aga fro dea of evi nam? wor thy
wil, but all we oth god wil in no wis pra the. and ano
thi i wil tel the, and do tho lay it up in thy hea; if tho dos
sen sar liv to his own hou, con les the som oth
god lik des to sen his own dea son awa out of the str
bat. for rou the gre cit of pri war man son of the
imm, and amo the imm wil tho sen ter wra. but if
he be dea to the, and thy hea mou for him, tru the suf him
to be sub in the str bat ben the han of pat son of
men, but whe his sou and lif lea tha war, sen dea and
swe sle to bea him, eve til the com to the lan of wid lyk,
the wil his kin and fri bur him, wit a bar and a pil,
for thi is the due of the dea."

so spa she, nor did the fat of god and men dis her. but he
she blo rai on the ear, hon his dea son, tha
pat was abo to sla in the dee-soi lan of tro, far off
fro his own cou. now whe the wer com nea eac oth in ons,
the ver did pat smi the ren thr, the goo
squ of the pri sar, on the low par of the bel, and
loo his lim. but sar mis him wit his shi jav, as
he in tur rus on, but wou the hor ped on the rig
sho wit the spe, and he shr as he bre his lif awa,
and fel cry in the dus, and his spi fle fro him. but the oth
twa rea thi way and tha, and the yok cre, and the rei wer
con on the, whe the tra-hor lay in the dus. but the
did aut, the spe ren, fin a rem, and dra his
lon-edg swo fro his sto thi, he lea for, and cut adr
the hor, wit no del, and the pai rig the, and str
in the rei, and the met aga in lif-dev war.

the aga sar mis wit his shi dar, and the poi of the
spe fle ove the lef sho of pat and smo him not, but he
in tur aro wit the bro, and his jav fle not vai fro his
han, but str sar eve whe the mid cla the bea
hea. and he fel as fal an oak, or a sil pop, or a sli pin
tre, tha on the hil the shi fel wit whe axe, to be
tim for shi-bui; eve so bef the hor and cha he lay
at len, moa alo, and clu at the blo dus. and as whe
a lio hat fal on a her, and sla a bul, taw and hig of hea,
amo the kin of tra gai, and he per gro ben the
cla of the lio, eve so und pat did the lea of the lyk
shi rag, eve in dea, and he cal to his dea com: "dea
gla, war amo war men, now mos dot it beh the to be a
spe, and a har fig: now let ban war be dea to the, if
ind tho art a man of mig. fir far all abo and urg on the
her tha be lea of the lyk, to fig for sar, and
the thy do bat for me wit the swo. for to the eve in
tim to com sha i be sha and dis for eve, all thy day, if
the ach str me of min arm, fal in the gat of the
shi. nay, hol out man, and spu on all the hos."

eve as he spa thu, the end of dea vei ove his eye and his
nos, but pat, set foo on his bre dre the spe out
of his fle, and the mid fol wit the spe, so tha he dre
for tog the spe poi, and the sou of sar; and the
myr hel the his pan ste, eag to fly afa, sin the
cha was ref of its lor.

the dre sor cam on gla, whe he hea the voi of sar,
and his hea was sti, tha he ava not to suc him. and wit
his han he cau and hel his arm, for the wou gal him, the wou
of the arr whe, as he pre on tow the lof wal, teu
had smi him, war off des fro his fel. the in
pra spa gla to far-dar apo: "hea, o pri tha art
som in the ric lan of lyk, or in tro, for tho can lis
eve to the man tha is in nee, as eve now nee com upo me.
for i hav thi sta wou, and min arm is tho pie wit
sha pai, nor can my blo be sta, and by the wou is my
sho bur, and i can hol my spe fir, nor go and fig
aga the ene. and the bes of men has per, sar, the son
of zeu, and he suc not eve his own chi. but do tho, o pri,
hea me thi sta wou, and lul my pai, and giv me str, tha
i may cal on my lyk kin, and spu the to the war, and mys
may fig abo the dea man fal."

so spa he in his pra, and pho apo hea him.  str he
mad his pai to cea, and in the gri wou sta the bla
blo, and put cou int his hea. and gla kne it wit him,
and was gla, for tha the gre god spe hea his pra. fir
wen he all abo and urg on the tha wer lea of the lyk to
fig aro sar, and the he wen wit lon str amo
the tro, to pol son of pan and nob age, and he wen
aft ain, and hec of the hel of bro, and sta by the
spa win wor: "hec, now sur art tho utt for of
the all, tha for thy sak, far fro the fri and the own
cou, bre the liv awa! but tho car not to aid the!
sar lie low, the lea of the lyk shi, he tha def
lyk by his doo and his mig, yea him hat mai are sub
ben the spe of pat. but, fri, sta by him, and be ang
in you hea les the myr str him of his har, and
dis the dea, in wra for the sak of the dan, eve the tha
per, who we sle wit spe by the swi shi."

so spa he, and sor sei the tro utt, ung and not
to be bor; for sar was eve the sta of the cit, all a
str as he was, for man peo fol wit him, and him the
bes war of the all. the the mad str for the dan
eag, and hec led the, bei wro for sar's sak. but the
fie hea of pat son of men urg on the ach. and he
spa fir to the twa aia tha the wer rig eag:
"aia, now let def be you des, and be suc as afo ye wer
amo men, or eve bra yet. tha man lie low who fir lea on to
the wal of the ach, eve sar. nay, let us str to tak him,
and wor his bod sha, and str the har fro his sho, and
man a one of his com fig for his sak let us sub wit the
pit bro."

so spa he, and the the wer eag in def.  so on bot
sid the str the com, tro and lyk, myr
and ach, and the joi bat to fig aro the dea man
fal; ter the sho, and lou ran the har of men. and as
the din ari of woo in the gla of a mou, and the
sou the is hea far awa, so ros the din of the fro the
wid-way ear, the noi of bro and of wel-tan bul' hid
smi wit swo and dou-poi spe. and now not eve a
cle-sig man cou any lon hav kno nob sar, for wit
dar and blo and dus was he cov who fro hea to foo. and
eve men thr abo the dea, as in a ste fli buz aro the
ful mil-pai, in the sea of spr, whe the mil dre the
bow, eve so thr the abo the dea. nor eve did zeu tur fro
the str fig his shi eye, but eve loo dow on the, and
muc in his hea he deb of the sla of pat, whe the
and the abo div sar glo hec sho sla him lik
in str bat wit the swo, and str his har fro his
sho, or whe to mor men yet he sho dea she lab of
war. and thu to him as he pon it see the bet way, tha the
gal squ of ach, pel' son, sho str dri the
tro and hec of the hel of bro tow the cit, and sho
rob man of the lif. and in hec fir he put a wea hea, and
lea int his car hec tur in fli, and cri on the res of
the tro to fle, for he kne the tur of the sac sca of
zeu. the nei did the str lyk abi, but fle all in
fea, whe the beh the kin str to the hea, lyi in the
com of the dea, for man had fal abo him, whe kro mad
fie the fig. the the oth str fro the sho of
sar his shi arm of bro, and the the str son of
men gav to his com to bea to the hol shi. the zeu
tha gat the clo spa to apo: "pri, dea pho, go
tak sar out of ran of dar, and cle the bla blo fro
him, and the bea him far awa, and bat him in the str of
the riv, and ano him wit amb, and clo him in gar tha
wax not old, and sen him to be waf by fle con, by the twi
bre sle and dea, tha qui wil set him in the ric lan of
wid lyk. the wil his kin and cla giv him bur, wit
bar and pil, for suc is the due of the dea."

so spa he, nor was apo dis to his fat. he wen dow the
hil of ida to the dre bat din, and str way bor goo
sar out of the dar, and car him far awa and bat him in
the str of the riv, and ano him wit amb, and cla him
in gar tha wax not old, and sen him to be waf by fle con,
the twi bre sle and dea, tha swi set him dow in the ric
lan of wid lyk. but pat cri to his hor and aut, and
aft the tro and lyk wen he, and so was bli for, in
his wit, for if he had kep the say of the son of pel,
ver he sho hav esc the evi fat of bla dea. but eve is
the wit of zeu str tha the wit of men, so now he rou the
spi of pat in his bre. the who fir, who las did
tho sla, pat, whe the god cal the dea? adr
fir, and aut, and ech, and per, son of meg, and
epi, and mel, and the ela, and mou, and
pyl; the he sle, but the oth wer eac man of the fai of
fli. the wou the son of the ach hav tak hig-gat tro,
by the han of pat, for aro and bef him he rag wit the
spe, but tha pho apo sto on the wel-bui wal, wit
ban tho tow pat, and suc the tro. thr
clo pat on the cor of the lof wal, and thr did apo
for him bac and smo the shi shi wit his imm han. but
whe for the fou tim he cam on lik a god, the cri far-dar
apo ter, and spa win wor: "giv bac, pat of the
see of zeu! not ben thy spe is it fat tha the cit of the
val tro sha fal, nay nor ben ach, a man far bet
tha tho."

so spa he, and pat ret far bac, avo the wra of
far-dar apo. but hec wit the ska gat was res
his who-hoo hor, pon whe he sho dri aga int
the din and fig, or sho cal unt the hos to gat to the wal.
whi thu he was thi, pho apo sto by him in the gui of
a you man and a str, asi, who was the mot's bro of
hor-tam hec, bei own bro of hek, and son of dym, who
dwe in phr, on the str of san. in his gui spa
apo, son of zeu, to hec: "hec, whe dos tho cea fro
fig? it dot not beh the. wou tha i wer as muc str tha
tho as i am wea, the qui sho tho sta alo fro war
to thy hur. but com, tur aga pat thy str-hoo hor,
if per tho may sla him, and apo giv the glo."

so spa the god, and wen bac aga int the moi of men. but ren
hec bad wis-hea keb to las his hor int the war. the
apo wen and pas int the pre, and sen a dre pan amo the
arg, but to the tro and hec gav he ren. and hec let
the oth arg be, and sle non of the, but aga pat he
tur his str-hoo hor, and pat on the oth sid lea
fro his cha to the gro, wit a spe in his lef han, and in
his oth han gra a shi jag sto, tha his han cov.
fir he pla him and hur it, nor lon did he shr fro his
foe, nor was his cas in vai, but he str keb the cha of
hec, the bas son of ren pri, on the bro wit the sha
sto, as he hel the rei of the hor. bot his bro the sto
dra tog, and his bon hel not, but his eye fel to the gro
in the dus, the, in fro of his fee. the he, lik a div, fel
fro the wel-wro car, and his spi lef his bon. the tau
him did tho add him, kni pat: "out on it, how nim a
man, how lig he div! yea, if per he wer on the tee
dee, thi man wou sat man by see for oys, lea fro
the shi, eve if it wer sto wea, so lig now he div fro
the cha int the pla. ver amo the tro too the be div
men."

so spe he set on the her keb wit the rus of a lio, tha
whi was the cat-pen is smi in the bre, and his own
val is his ban, eve so aga keb, pat, did tho
lea fur. but hec, on the oth sid, lea fro his cha
to the gro. and the twa str for keb lik lio, tha on
the mou pea fig, bot hun, bot hig of hea, for a
sla hin. eve so for keb' sak the two mas of the
war-cry, pat son of men, and ren hec, wer eag
eac to hew the oth's fle wit the rut bro.

hec the sei him by the hea, and sla not hol, whi
pat on the oth sid gra him by the foo, and the the
oth, tro and dan, joi str bat. and as the eas win
and the sou con wit one ano in sha a dee woo in the
del of a mou, sha bee, and ash, and smo-bar cor
tre, tha cla aga eac oth the lon bou wit mar
din, and a noi of bra bro, so the tro and ach wer
lea on eac oth and sla, nor had eit sid any tho of
rui fli. and man sha dar wer fix aro keb, and
win arr lea fro the bow-str, and man mig sto smo
the shi of the tha fou aro him. but he in the whi of dus
lay mig and mig fal, for of his chi.

now whi the sun was goi abo mid-hea, so lon the dar smo
eit sid, and the hos fel, but whe the sun tur to the tim of
the loo of oxe, lo, the bey the doo the ach pro the
bet. the her keb dre the for fro the dar, out of the
tum of the tro, and str the har fro his sho, and
wit ill des aga the tro, pat rus upo the. thr
tim the rus he on, pee of swi are, sho ter, and
thr he sle nin men. but whe the fou tim he spe on lik a god,
the to the, pat, did the end of lif app, for pho met
the in the str bat, in dre wis. and pat was not war
of him com thr the pre, for hid in thi mis did he mee
him, and sto beh him, and smo his bac and bro sho wit a
dow-str of his han, and his eye wer daz. and fro his hea
pho apo smo the hel tha rol rat awa wit a din
ben the hoo of the hor, the hel wit upr soc, and the
cre wer def wit blo and dus. and all the lon-sha spe
was sha in the han of pat, the spe gre and hea and
str, and sha, whi fro his sho the tas shi wit
the bal fel to the gro.

and the pri apo, son of zeu, loo his cor, and bli
sei his hea and his shi lim wer uns, and he sto in
ama, and at clo qua fro beh a dar smo him on the
bac, bet the sho, wit a sha spe, eve eup, son of
pan, who exc the of his age in cas the spe, and in
hor, and in spe of foo. eve thu, ver, had he cas dow
twe men fro the cha, tho the fir had he com wit his
car to lea the les of war. he it was tha fir smo a dar int
the, kni pat, nor ove the, but ran bac aga and
min wit the thr, fir dra for fro the fle his ash
spe, nor did he abi the ons of pat, una as he was, in
the str. but pat, bei ove by the str of the god, and
by the spe, gav gro, and ret to the hos of his com,
avo fat. but hec, whe he beh gre-hea pat giv
gro, bei smi wit the kee bro, cam nig unt him thr
the ran, and wou him wit a spe, in the low par of the
bel, and dra the bro cle thr. and he fel wit a cra, and
sor gri the hos of ach. and as whe a lio hat ove in
bat an unt boa, the twa fig wit hig hea on the
cre of a hil, abo a lit wel, and bot are des to dri,
and the lio hat by for ove the boa tha dra dif
bre; so aft tha he had sla man did hec son of pri tak the
lif awa fro the str son of men, smi him at clo
qua wit the spe; and boa ove him he spa win wor:
"pat, sur tho sai tha tho wou sac my tow, and fro
tro wom tak awa the day of fre, and bri the in shi to
thi own dea cou: foo! nay, in fro of the wer the swi
hor of hec str the spe for the fig; and mys in
wie the spe exc amo the war-lov tro, eve i who war
fro the the day of des: but the sha vul her dev. ah,
wre, sur ach for all his val, ava the not, who
str cha the as tho cam, he abi the, say, 'com
not to me, pat lor of ste, to the hol shi, til tho has
tor the gor dou of man-sla hec abo his bre;' so,
sur, he spa to the, and per the wit of the in thy
wit."

the fai did tho ans him, kni pat: "boa gre,
as now, hec, for to the hav zeu, son of kro, and apo giv
the vic, who lig hav sub me; for the str my
har fro my sho. but if twe suc as tho had enc
me, her had the all per, sub ben my spe. but me hav
rui fat and the son of let sla, and of men eup, but tho
art the thi in my sla. but ano thi wil i tel the, and do
tho lay it up in thy hea: ver tho thy art not lon to liv,
but alr dot dea sta har by the, and str fat, tha tho
art to be sub by the han of nob ach, of the see of
aia."

eve as so he spa the end of dea ove him. and his sou,
fle fro his lim, wen dow to the hou of had, wai its
own doo, lea man and you.

the ren hec spa to him eve in his dea: "pat,
whe to me dol tho pro she des? who kno but tha
ach, the chi of fai-tre the, wil fir be smi by my
spe, and los his lif?"

so spa he, and dre the spe of bro fro the wou, set his
foo on the dea, and cas him off on his bac fro the spe. and
str wit the spe he wen aft aut, the god squ
of the swi-foo aia, for he was eag to smi him; but his
swi-foo imm hor bar him out of the bat, hor tha the
god gav to pel, a spl gif.



boo xvi.

    of the bat aro the bod of pat.

but atr' son, men dea to are, was not una of the sla
of pat by the tro in the fra. he wen up thr the fro of
the fig har in fla bro, and str ove the bod as
abo a fir-bor cal sta low its mot. thu abo pat
str fai-hai men, and bef him hel his spe and the
cir of his shi, eag to sla who sho enc him. the
was pan' son of the sto ash spe not hee of nob
pat as he lay, and he smo on the cir of the shi of
men, but the bro spe bra it not, but the poi was ben bac
in the stu shi. and men atr' son in his tur mad at him
wit his bro spe, hav pra unt fat zeu, and as he gav
bac pie the net par of his thr, and thr his wei int
the str, fol his hea han; and she thr the ten nec
wen the poi of the spe. and he fel wit a cra, and his arm
ran upo him. in blo was his hai dre tha was lik unt the
hai of the gra, and his tre clo kni wit ban of sil
and gol.

the eas wou the son of atr hav bor off the nob spo of
pan' son, had not pho apo gru it to him, and aro
aga him hec pee of swi are, put on the sem of a
man, of men chi of the kik. and he spa alo to him win
wor: "hec, now art tho has aft thi una, eve the
hor of wis aia; for har are the to be tam or dri by
mor man, sav onl ach who an imm mot bar. mea
hat war men atr' son str ove pat and sla the
bes of the tro the, eve pan' son eup, and hat sta
him in his imp mig."

thu say the god wen bac int the str of men, but dir gri
dar hec inm sou, and the he gaz sea alo the
lin, and str was awa of the one man str off the nob
arm, and the oth lyi on the ear; and blo was flo abo the
gap wou. the he wen thr the fro of the fig har in
fla bro, cry a shr cry, lik unt hep' fla
unq. not dea to his shr cry was atr' son, and sor
tro he spa to his gre hea: "ay me, if i sha lea beh me
the goo arm, and pat who her lie for my ven' sak,
i fea les som dan beh it be wro aga me. but if for
hon's sak i do bat alo wit hec and the tro, i fea les
the com abo me man aga one; for all the tro is
bri-hel hec lea hit. but if i mig som fin aia
of the lou war-cry, the bot tog wou we go and be min of
bat eve wer it aga the pow of hea, if hap we mig sav
his dea for ach pel' son: tha wer bes amo the ill."

whi thu he com wit his min and hea, the the tro
ran cam onw, and hec at the hea. the men gav
bac, and lef the dea man, tur him eve abo lik a
dee-wan lio whi men and dog cha fro a fol wit spe and
cri; and his str hea wit him gro chi, and lot goe he
fro the ste; so fro pat wen fai-hai men, and
tur and sto, whe he cam to the hos of his com, sea
for mig aia tel's son. him ver spe he esp on the lef
of the who bat, che his com and rou the to fig,
for gre ter had pho apo sen on the; and he has him to
run, and str sto by him and sai: "thi way, bel aia; let
us bes us for the dea pat, if hap his nak cor at lea
we may car to ach, tho his arm is hel by hec of the
gla hel."

thu spa he, and aro the hea of wis aia. and he wen up
thr the fro of the fig, and wit him fai-hai men. now
hec, whe he had str fro pat his nob arm, was
dra him the tha he mig cut off the hea fro the sho
wit the kee bro and car his bod to giv to the dog of tro. but
aia cam ani, and the shi tha he bar was as a tow; the hec
gav bac int the com of his com, and spr int his cha;
and the goo arm he gav to the tro to car to the cit, to be
gre glo unt him. but aia spr his bro shi ove the son of
men and sto as it wer a lio bef his whe whe hun in
a for enc him as he lea his you. and by his sid sto
atr' son, men dea to are, nur gre sor in his bre.

the hec cal on the tro wit a mig sho; "tro and
lyk and dar tha fig han to han, be men, my fri, and
bet you of imp val, unt i do on me the goo arm of
nob ach tha i str fro bra pat whe i sle him."

thu hav spo wen hec of the gla hel for out of the
str of war, and ran and spe wit fle fee fol ove
his com, not yet far off, who wer bea to the cit pel'
glo arm. and sta apa fro the dol bat he cha
his arm; his own he gav the war tro to car to sac
ili, and he put on the div arm of ach, pel' son.

but whe zeu tha gat the clo beh fro afa off hec
arm him in the arm of pel' god son, he sho his hea and
spa thu unt his sou: "ah, hap man, no tho is in thy hea
of dea tha yet dra nig unt the; tho doe on the the div
arm of a pee man bef who the res hav ter. his com,
gen and bra, tho has sla, and unm has str the arm
fro his hea and sho; yet now for a whi at lea i wil giv
int thy han gre mig, in rec for thi, eve tha now
sha tho com hom out of the bat, for and to rec fro
the pel' glo arm."

thu spa the son of kro, and bow his dar bro the.

but the arm fit its unt hec bod, and are the dre
war-god ent int him, and his lim wer fil wit wit val
and str. the he spe amo the nob all wit a mig cry, and
in the fla of his arm he see to all of the lik unt pel'
gre-hea son. and he cam to eac and enc him wit his
wor--mes and gla and med and the and ast
and dei and hip and pho and chr and the aug
enn--the enc he and spa to the win wor: "lis, ye
cou tri of all tha dwe rou abo. it was not for mer
num tha i sou or lon whe i gat eac of you fro you
cit, but tha ye mig zea gua the tro' wiv and inf
lit one fro the war-lov ach. for thi end am i wea my
peo by tak gif and foo fro the, and nur the the
cou of eac of you. now the let all tur str aga the
foe and liv or die, for suc is the dal of war. and who sha
dra pat, dea tho he be, amo the hor-tam men of tro,
and mak aia yie, to him wil i awa hal the spo and kee hal
mys; so sha his glo be gre as min."

thu spa he, and the aga the dan cha wit all the
wei, lev the spe, and the hea wer hig of hop to
dra the cor fro und aia, tel's son. fon men! fro ful man
ref he lif ove tha cor. and the spa aia to men of the
lou war-cry: "dea men, fos of zeu, no lon cou i tha
we two of our sha ret hom out of the war. nor hav i so muc
dre for the cor of pat, tha sha soo glu the dog and
bir of the men of tro, as for thy hea and min les som evi fal
the, for all is shr by a sto-clo of war, eve by hec,
and she doo sta in our fac. but com, cal tho to the bes men
of the dan, if hap any hea."

thu spa he, and men of the lou war-cry dis him not, but
sho unt the dan, cry a far-hea cry: "o fri, ye lea
and cou of the arg, who by the sid of the son of atr,
aga and men, dri at the com cos and are all com
of the hos, on who wai glo and hon fro zeu, har is it for me
to dis eac chi ami the pre--suc bla is the of the
str of war. but let eac go for of him and be wro at hea
tha pat sho bec a spo amo the dog of tro."

thu spa he, and oil' son fle aia hea him cle, and was
fir to run alo the mel to mee him, and aft him ido, and
ido' bro-in-arm, mer, pee of the man-sla war-god.
and who sha of his own tho tel the nam of the res, eve of all
tha aft the aro the bat of the ach?

now the tro cha for in clo arr, and hec led the. and
as whe at the mou of som hea-bor riv a mig wav roa
aga the str, and aro the hig cli' ech as the sal sea
bel on the bea, so lou was the cry whe the tro cam.
but the ach sto fir aro men' son wit one sou all,
wal in wit shi of bro. and ove the bri hel the son
of kro she thi dar, for in the for tim was men' son
not unl of him, whi he was yet ali and squ of aia. so
was zeu lot tha he sho bec a pre of the dog of his ene at
tro, and sti his com to do bat for him.

now fir the tro thr bac the gla-eye ach, who shr
bef the and lef the dea, yet the pro tro sle not any of
the wit spe, tho the wer fai, but set to hal the cor. but
lit whi wou the ach hol bac the, for ver swi
aia ral the, aia the fir in pre and in dee of all the
dan aft the nob son of pel. rig thr the fig in the
for rus he lik a wil boa in his mig tha in the mou
whe he tur at bay sca lig dog and lus you men
thr the gla. thu did pro tel's son the glo aia pre
on the tro bat and lig sca the, as the had bes
pat and wer ful fai to dra him to the cit and win ren.

the wou the tro in the tur in the wea ove hav
bee dri bac int ili by the ach dea to are, and the
arg wou hav won glo eve aga the app of zeu by
the pow and mig. but apo him aro ain, put on
the sem of per the her, the son of epy, who gre old
wit his old fat in his her, of fri tho tow
ain. in his sim spa apo, son of zeu: "ain, how
cou ye eve gua hig ili if it wer aga the wil of god? oth
men hav i see tha tru in the own mig and pow and val, and
in the hos, eve tho the hav sca fol to lea. but her,
alb zeu is fai far to giv vic to us tha to the dan, yet
ye are dis exc and fig not."

thu spa he, and ain kne far-dar apo whe he loo upo
his fac, and spa unt hec, sho lou "hec and ye oth
lea of the tro and the all, sha wer thi if in our
wea ove we wer dri bac int ili by the ach dea to
are. nay, thu sai a god, who sta by my sid: zeu, hig
ord, is our hel in thi fig. the let us go rig onw
aga the dan. not eas at lea let the tak the dea
pat to the shi."

thu spa he, and lea for far bef the fig in the fro. and
the tro ral and sto up aga the ach. thu str the
as it had bee fir, nor wou tho hav tho the was sti sun
or moo, for ove all the bat whe the chi sto aro the sla
son of men the wer shr in dar, whi the oth tro
and wel-gre ach fou at eas in the cle air, and pie
sun was spr ove the, and on all the ear and hil the was
no clo see; and the cea fig now sad aga, avo eac
oth's dol dar and sta far apa. but the who wer in the
mid end aff of the dar and the bat, and all the
bes men of the wer wea by the pit wei of the bro
arm.

thu all day lon wax the mig fra of the sor str; and
una eve wit the swe of toi wer the kne and leg and fee
of eac man and arm ana eye bed as the two hos did bat
aro the bra squ of fle aia. and as whe a man giv the
hid of a gre bul to his fol to str, all soa in fat, and the
tak and str it sta in a cir, and str the moi
the dep and the fat ent in und the hal of man
han, and it is all str thr,--thu the on bot sid
hal the dea man thi way and tha in nar spa, for the hea
wer hig of hop, the tro tha the sho dra him to ili and
the ach to the hol shi; and aro him the fra wax wil,
nor mig are rou of hos nor ath des the sig the,
alb the ang wer exc gre.

suc was the gri tra of men and hor ove pat tha zeu
on tha day wro. but not as yet kne nob ach aug of
pat' dea, for far awa fro the swi shi the wer fig
ben the wal of the men of tro. the nev dee he in his
hea tha he was dea, but tha he sho com bac ali, aft tha
he had tou the gat; for nei tha oth tho had he any,
tha pat sho sac the str wit his aid.

now the res con aro the dea man wit the kee spe mad
ons rel and sle eac the oth. and thu wou one spe
amo the mai-cla ach: "fri, it wer ver not glo for
us to go bac to the hol shi; rat let the bla ear yaw for
us all ben our fee. far bet wer tha str for us if we
suf the hor-tam tro to hal thi man to the cit and win
ren."

and thu on the oth sid wou one of the gre-hea tro say:
"fri, tho it wer our fat tha all tog we be sla bes
thi man, let non yet giv bac fro the fra."

thu wou one spe, and rou the spi of eac. so the fou on,
and the iro din wen up thr the hig des air unt the bra
hea. but the hor of aia tha wer apa fro the bat wer
wee, sin fir the wer awa tha the cha was fal in
the dus ben the han of man-sla hec. ver aut,
dio' val son, pli the oft wit blo of the swi las, and
oft wit gen wor he spa to the and oft wit chi, yet wou
the nei go bac to the shi at the bro hel nor yet to the
bat aft the ach, but as a pil abi fir tha sta on
the tom of a man or wom dea, so abo the imm wit the
bea cha, aba the hea unt the ear. and hot tea
flo fro the eye to the gro as the mou in sor for the
cha, and the ric man wer soi as the dro fro
ben the yok-cus on bot sid bes the yok. and whe the son
of kro beh the mou he had com on the, and sho his
hea and spa to his own hea: "ah, hap pai, why gav we you to
kin pel, a mor man, whi ye are dea and eve you? was it
tha ye sho suf sor amo ill-fat men? for met the
is not mor pit tha a man amo all thi tha bre and
cre upo the ear. but ver hec pri's son sha not dri you
and you def-wro car; tha wil i not suf. is it a sma thi
tha he hol the arm and vau him vai the? nay, i
wil put cou int you kne and hea tha ye may bri aut
als saf out of the war to the hol shi. for yet fur wil i
inc vic to the men of tro, so tha the sla unt the com
unt the wel-tim shi, and the sun set and div nig com
dow."

thu say he bre goo cou int the hor. and the sho to
ear the dus fro the man, and lig bar the swi car ami
tro and ach. and beh the fou aut, alb in gri
for his com, swo wit his cha as a vul on wil gee;
for lig he wou fle out of the ons of the tro and lig
cha, pur the thr the thi mel. yet cou he not sla
any man as he hal to pur the, for it was imp tha bei
alo in his sac car he sho at onc ass the wit the spe and
hol his fle hor. the at las esp him a com, eve alk
son of lae, son of hai, and he hal beh the car and spa
unt aut: "aut, wha god hat put int thy bre
unp cou and tak fro the wis, tha thu alo tho
art fig aga the tro in the for of the pre? thy
com eve now was sla, and hec goe pro, wea on his own
sho the arm of aia."

and aut son of dio ans him, say: "alk, wha oth
ach hat lik ski to gui the spi of imm ste, sav
onl pat, pee of god in cou, whi he yet liv? but now
hav dea and fat ove him. but tak tho the las and shi
rei, and i wil get me dow fro my hor, tha i may fig."

thu spa he, and alk lea on the fle war-cha and swi
too the las and rei in his han, and aut lea dow. and
nob hec esp the, and str spa unt ain as he sto
nea: "ain, cou of mai-cla tro, i esp her the two
hor of fle aia com for to bat wit fee cha.
the mig i hop to tak the if tho in thy hea art wil,
sin the wou not abi our ons and sta to do bat aga us."

thu spa he, and the bra son of anc dis him not. and
the twa wen rig onw, the sho shi by ox-hid dri
and tou, and bro thi ove. and wit the wen bot chr
and god are, and the hea wer of hig hop to sla the men
and dri off the str-nec hor--fon hop, for not wit blo
los wer the to get the bac fro aut. he pra to fat
zeu was fil in his inm hea wit val and str. and
str he spa to alk, his fai com: "alk,
hol the hor not far fro me, but wit the ver bre upo my
bac; for i dee tha hec the son of pri wil not ref him fro
his fur unt he mou beh ach' hor of goo man aft
sla us twa, and dis the ran of arg men, or els him
fal amo the for."

thu sai he, and cal upo the aia and men: "aia,
lea of the arg, and men, lo now, com ye the cor unt
who may bes ava to bes it and res the ran of men, and
com ye to war the day of doo fro us who are yet ali, for her in
the dol war are hec and ain, the bes men of the tro,
pre har. yet ver the iss lie in the lap of the god: i too
wil cas my spe, and the res sha zeu dec."

he sai, and poi his far-sha spe and hur it, and smo on
the cir of the shi of are, and the shi sus not the
spe, but rig thr wen the bro, and he for it int his
bel low dow thr his bel. and as whe a str man wit a sha
axe smi beh the hor of an ox of the hom cle the
sin asu, and the ox lea for and fal, so lea are
for and fel on his bac; and the spe in his ent ver
pie qui uns his lim. and hec hur at aut
wit his bri spe, but he loo ste on the bro jav
as it cam at him and avo it, for he sto for, and the lon
spe fix its in the gro beh, and the jav-but qui,
and the dre are too awa its for. and the had the las at
eac oth wit the swo han to han, had not the aia par
the in the fur, whe the wer com thr the mel at the
com' cal. bef the hec and ain and god chr
shr bac and gav gro and lef are wou to the dea as
he lay. and aut, pee of swi are, str off the arm of
the dea, and spa exu: "ver, i hav a lit eas my hea
of gri for the dea of men' son, alb a wor man tha him
hav i sla."

thu say he too up the gor spo and set the in his car, and gat
him the, wit fee and han all blo, as a lio tha hat
dev a bul.

now gre-hea aia and men wer awa of zeu how he gav the
tro the tur to vic. fir of the to spe was gre aia
son of tel: "ay me, now may any man, eve tho he be a ver foo,
kno tha fat zeu him is hel the tro. com, let us
our dev som exc mea, tha we may bot hal the cor
awa and our ret hom to the joy of our fri, who gri as
the loo hit and dee tha no lon sha the fur of
man-sla hec's una han ref its, but fal upo
the bla shi. and wou the wer som com to car tid wit
all spe unt the son of pel, sin i dee tha he hat not eve
hea the gri tid, how his dea com is sla. but now
can i beh suc an one amo the ach, for the and the
hor lik are wra in dar. o fat zeu, del tho the
son of the ach fro the dar, and mak cle sky and vou
sig unt our eye. in the lig be it tha tho sla us, sin it
is thy goo ple tha we die."

the fai-hai men dep gla eve, as an eag
whi men say hat kee sig of all bir und hea, and tho
he be far alo the fle-foo har elu him not by cro
ben a lea bus, but the eag swo the and swi sei
her and tak her lif. thu in tha hou, men fos of zeu,
ran thy shi eye eve thr the mul of the hos
of thy com, if hap the mig beh nes's son yet ali. him
qui he per at the lef of the who bat, hea his
com and rou the to fig. and fai-hai men cam and
sto nig and sai unt him: "ant, fos of zeu, com
hit tha tho may lea wof tid--wou it had nev bee.
ere now, i wee, tho too has kno by thy beh tha god rol
mis upo the dan, and wit the tro is vic. and sla is
the bes man of the ach, pat, and gre sor is wro for
the dan. but run tho to the shi of the ach and qui tel
thi to ach, if hap he may str res to his shi the
nak cor: but his arm is hel by hec of the gla hel."

thu spa he, and ant had hor of the wor he hea. and lon
tim spe pos him, and his eye wer fil wit tea,
and his ful voi cho. yet for all thi dis he not the
bid of men, but set him to run, whe he had giv his arm to
a nob com, lao, who clo ani him was whe his
who-hoo hor.

so him his fee bar out of the bat wee, to ach son of
pel car an evi tal. but thy hea, men fos of
zeu, cho not to sta to aid the wea com fro who ant
dep, and gre sor was amo the pyl. but to the men
sen nob thr, and him wen aga to bes the her
pat. and he has and sto bes the aia and str
spa to the: "so hav i sen tha man to the swi shi to go to
fle-foo ach. yet dee i not tha he wil now com, for all his
wra aga nob hec, for he cou not fig una aga the
men of tro. but let us our dev som exc mea, bot how
we may hal the dea awa, and how we our may esc dea and
fat ami the tro' bat-cry."

the ans him gre aia tel's son, say: "all thi has tho
sai wel, mos nob men. but do tho and mer put you
sho ben the dea and lif him and bea him swi out of the
fra, whi we twa beh you sha do bat wit the tro and
nob hec, one in hea as we are in nam, for fro of old tim we
are won to awa fie bat sid by sid."

thu spa he, and the oth too the dea man in the arm and lif
him mig on hig. but the tro hos beh cri alo whe the
saw the ach lif the cor, and cha lik hou tha spr
in fro of hun-you upo a wou wil boa, and for a whi run
in has to ren him, but whe he whe rou amo the, tru in
his mig, the the giv gro and shr bac her and the. thu
for a whi the tro pre on wit all the pow, str wit
swo and dou-hea spe, but whe the aia tur abo and
hal ove aga the, the the cha col, and non dar
far ons to do bat aro the dea.



boo xvi.

    how ach gri for pat, and how the ask for
    him new arm of hep; and of the mak of the
    arm.

thu fou the res in the lik of bla fir, whi to ach
cam ant, a mes fle of foo. him fou he in fro of his
shi of upr hor, bod in his sou the thi whi eve now
wer acc. and sor tro he spa to his gre hea: "ay
me, whe aga are the flo-hai ach flo to the
shi and fly in rou ove the pla? may the god not hav wro
aga me the gri fea at my hea, eve as my mot rev
and tol me tha whi i am yet ali the bes man of the myr mus
by dee of the men of tro for the lig of the sun. sur now mus
men' val son be dea--foo! sur i bad him whe he
sho hav bea off the fir of the foe to com bac to the shi nor
wit hec fig ama."

whi thu he hel deb in his hea and sou, the dre nig unt
him nob nes's son, she hot tea, and spa his gri
tid: "ay me, wis pel' son, ver bit tid mus tho hea,
suc as i wou had nev bee. fal is pat, and the are
fig aro his bod, nak, for his arm is hel by hec of the
gla hel."

thu spa he, and a bla clo of gri enw ach, and wit
bot han he too dar dus and pou it ove his hea and def his
com fac, and on his fra dou bla ash fel. and him
in the dus lay mig and mig fal, and wit his own han tor
and mar his hai. and the han, who ach and pat
too cap, cri alo in the gri of the hea, and ran for
aro val ach, and all bea on the bre wit the han,
and the kne of eac of the wer uns. and ant on the oth
sid wai and she tea, hol ach' han whi he gro in
his nob hea, for he fea les he sho cle his thr wit the
swo. the ter moa ach; and his lad mot hea him as
she sat in the dep of the sea bes her anc sir. and the
she utt a cry, and the god flo aro her, all the
dau of ner tha wer in the dee of the sea. wit the the
bri cav was fil, and the all bea tog on the bre, and
the led the lam: "lis, sis ner, tha ye all hea and
kno wel wha sor are in my hea. ay me unh, ay me tha bar
to my sor the fir of men! for aft i had bor a son nob and
str, the chi of her, and he sho up lik a you bra, the
whe i had rea him as a pla in a ver fru fie i sen him in
bea shi to ili to fig aga the men of tro; but nev aga
sha i wel him bac to his hom, to the hou of pel. and whi
he yet liv in my sig and beh the lig of the sun, he
sor, nei can i hel him any whi tho i go unt him. but i
wil go, tha i may loo upo my dea chi, and lea wha sor hat
com to him tho he abi alo fro the war."

thu spa she and lef the cav; and the nym wen wit her wee,
and aro the the sur of the sea was sun. and whe the cam to
dee-soi tro-lan the wen up upo the sho in ord, whe the
shi of the myr wer dra up thi aro fle ach. and
as he gro hea his lad mot sto bes him, and wit a
shr cry cla the bea of her chi, and spa unt him win
wor of lam: "my chi, why wee tho? wha sor hat com
to thy hea? tel it for, hid it not. one thi at lea hat bee
acc of zeu acc to the pra tho mad, hol up to
him thy han, tha the son of the ach sho all be pen in at
the shi, thr lac of the, and sho suf hat thi."

the gro hea spa unt her ach fle of foo: "my mot,
tha pra tru hat the oly acc for me. but wha
del hav i the, sin my dea com is dea, pat, who i
hon abo all my com as it wer my ver sel! him hav i los,
and hec tha sle him hat str fro him the arm gre and
fai, a won to beh, tha the god gav to pel a spl gif,
on the day whe the lai the in the bed of a mor man. wou tho
had abo amo the dea dau of the sea, and pel had
wed a mor bri! but now, tha tho may hav sor a tho
fol in thy hea for a dea son, nev sha tho wel him bac
hom, sin my sou bid me als liv no lon nor abi amo men,
if hec be not fir smi by my spe and yie his lif, and pay
for his sla of pat, men' son."

the ans unt him the she tea: "sho-liv, i wee, mus
tho be the, my chi, by wha tho say, for str aft
hec is dea app unt the."

the mig mov spa unt her ach fle of foo: "str
may i die, sin i mig not suc my com at his sla. he hat
fal afa fro his cou and lac my hel in his sor nee. now
the, sin i go not bac to my dea nat lan, nei hav at
all bee suc to pat nor to all my oth com tha hav
bee sla by nob hec, but i sit bes my shi a pro
bur of the ear, i tha in war am suc an one as is non els of the
mai-cla ach, tho in cou are oth bet--may str
per utt amo god and men, and wra tha sti eve a wis
man to be vex, wra tha far swe tha tri hon wax lik
smo in the bre of men, eve as i was wro eve now aga
aga kin of men. but byg wil we let be, for all our pai,
cur the hea in our bre und nec. now go i for, tha i
may lig on the des of him i lov, on hec: the wil i acc
my dea whe zeu wil to acc it and the oth imm
god. for not eve the mig her esc dea, alb mos dea
to kro zeu the kin, but fat ove him and her's cru wra.
so als sha i, if my fat hat bee fas lik, lie low whe i
am dea. but now let me win hig ren, let me set som tro wom,
som dee-bos dau of dar, sta wit bot han the
tea upo her ten che and wai bit; yea, let the kno
tha i am com bac, tho i tar lon fro the war. hol not me
the fro the bat in thy lov, for tho sha not pre wit me."

the the the sil-foo god ans him, say: "yea ver,
my chi, no bla is in thi, tha tho war she des fro thy
com in the dis. but thy fai gli arm of bro is
hel amo the tro. hec of the gla hel bea it on his
sho in tri, yet not for lon, i wee, sha he glo the,
for dea is har ani him. but tho, go not yet dow int the mel
of war unt tho see me wit thi eye com hit. in the mor
wil i ret, at the com up of the sun, bea fai arm fro the
kin hep."

thu spa she and tur to go fro her son, and as she tur she
spa amo her sis of the sea: "ye now go dow wit the wid
bos of the dee, to vis the anc one of the sea and our fat's
hou, and tel him all. i am goi to hig oly to hep of
nob ski, if hap he wil giv unt my son nob arm shi
glo."

thu spa she, and the for wen dow ben the sur of the
sea. and the sil-foo god the wen on to oly tha she
mig bri nob arm to her son.

so her unt oly her fee bor. but the ach wit ter cri
wer fle bef man-sla hec til the cam to the shi and
to the hel. nor mig the wel-gre ach dra the cor
of pat ach' squ out of the dar, for now aga ove
him the hos and the hor of tro, and hec son of pri, in mig
as it wer a fla of fir. thr did glo hec sei him fro
beh by the fee, res to dra him awa, and mig cal upo
the men of tro. thr did the two aia, clo on wit imp
mig, bea him off fro the dea man, but he nat, tru in his
mig, ano wou cha int the pre, ano wou sta and cry alo,
but he gav gro nev a whi. as whe she in the fie ava
now to cha a fie lio in fie hun awa fro a car, so
ava not the two war aia to sca hec son of pri fro
the dea. and now wou he hav won the bod and gai ren
uns, had not fle win-foo iri com spe fro oly
wit a mes to the son of pel to arr him, unk of zeu and
the oth god, for her sen her. and she sto ani and spa to him
win wor: "rou the, son of pel, of all men mos red!
suc pat, for who bod is ter bat afo bef the
shi. the sla the one ano, the gua the dea cor,
whi the men of tro are fie to hal him unt win ili, and
chi nob hec is fai to dra him, and his hea bid him
fix the hea on the sta of the wal whe he hat sun it fro the
ten nec. but ari, lie thu no lon! let awe ent thy hea to
for tha pat bec the spo of dog of tro. thi wer the
sha if he go dow man ami the dea."

the ans her fle-foo nob ach: "god iri, wha god
sen the a mes unt me?"

and to him aga spa win-foo fle iri: "it was her tha sen
me, the wis wif of zeu, nor kno the hig-thr son of kro
nor any oth of the imm tha on sno oly hav the
dwe-pla."

and ach fle of foo mad ans to her and sai: "and how may i
go int the fra? the tro hol my arm; and my dea mot bad me
for to arr me unt i beh her wit my eye ret, for she
pro to bri fai arm fro hep. oth man kno i non
who nob arm i mig put on, sav it wer the shi of aia
tel's son. but him, i wee, is in the for of the pre,
dea dea wit his spe aro pat dea."

the aga spa unt him win-foo fle iri: "wel are we als
awa tha thy nob arm is hel fro the. but go for unt the
tre as tho art and sho thy to the men of tro, if hap the
wil shr bac and ref the fro bat, and the war son of
the ach tak bre."

thu spa fle-foo iri and wen her way. but ach dea to zeu
aro, and aro his str sho ath cas her tas aeg,
and aro his hea the bri god set a cro of a gol clo,
and kin the a bla fla. and as whe a smo iss fro
a cit and ris up int the upp air, fro an isl afa off tha
foe bel, whi the oth fro the cit fig all day in
hat war,--but wit the goi dow of the sun bla out the
bea-fir in lin, and hig alo rus up the gla for dwe
rou abo to beh, if hap the may com wit shi to hel in
nee--thu fro the hea of ach soa tha bla tow the
hea. and he wen and sto bey the wal bes the tre, yet
min not amo the ach, for he min the wis bid of his
mot. the sto he and sho alo, and afa off pal ath
utt her voi, and spr ter uns amo the men of tro.
cle as the voi of a cla whe it sou by rea of
sla foe tha bel a cit, so cle ran for the voi
of aia. and whe the hea the bra voi of aia, the sou
of all of the wer dis, and the hor of goo man wer fai
to tur the cha bac, for the bod ang in the hea,
and the cha wer ama whe the saw the unw fir bla
fie on the hea of the gre-hea son of pel, for the
bri-eye god ath mad it bla. thr fro ove the tre
sho mig nob ach, and thr wer the men of tro
con and the pro all. yea the and the per twe
men of the bes by the own cha whe and spe. but the
ach wit joy dre pat for of the dar and lai him on a
lit, and his dea com sto aro lam him; and amo the
fol fle-foo ach, she hot tea, for his tru com
he saw lyi on the bie, man by the kee bro. him sen he for
wit cha and hor unt the bat, but hom aga wel nev
mor.

the her the ox-eye que sen dow the unw sun to be gon
unw unt the str of oce. so the sun set, and the nob
ach mad pau fro the str of bat and the haz war.

but the ach all nig mad moa in lam for pat. and
fir of the in the lou lam was the son of pel, lay upo
the bre of his com his man-sla han and moa ver sor,
eve as a dee-bea lio who whe som sta-hun hat sna
awa out of a dee woo; and the lio com aft gri and
thr man gle he ran on the tra of the foo of the man,
if any he mig fin him, for mos bit ang sei him;--thu
ach moa hea spa amo the myr: "ay me, vai ver
was the wor i utt on tha day whe i che the her men in
his hal and sai tha i wou bri bac to opo his son in glo
fro the sac of ili wit the sha of spo tha sho fal unt
him. not all the pur of men dot zeu acc for the. it is
app tha bot of us red the sam ear wit our blo her in
tro-lan, for nei sha the old kni pel wel me bac hom
wit his hal, nor my mot the, but eve her sha ear kee
hol on me. yet now, o pat, sin i fol the und ear, i
wil not hol thy fun til i hav bro hit the arm and the
hea of hec, thy hig-hea sla, and bef thy pyr i wil cut
the thr of twe nob son of the men of tro, for min ang tho
art sla. til the bes the bea shi sha tho lie as tho art,
and aro the dee-bos wom, tro and dar, sha mou
the wee nig and day, eve the who we toi to win by our
str and, our lon spe whe we sac ric cit of mor men."

thu spa nob ach, and bad his com set a gre tri on
the fir, tha wit all spe the mig was fro pat the blo
gor. so the set a tri of abl on the bur fir, and pou
the wat and too woo and kin it ben; and the fir wra
the bel of the tri, and the wat gre hot. and whe the wat
boi in the bri bro, the was the him and ano wit
oli oil, and fil his wou wit fre oin, and lai him on a
bie and cov him wit sof clo fro hea to foo, and the a
whi rob. the all nig aro ach fle of foo the myr
mad lam and moa for pat.

mea zeu spa unt her his sis and wif: "tho has
acc thi, o her, ox-eye que, tho has aro ach
fle of foo. ver of thi own chi mus the flo-hai
ach be."

the ans unt him her the ox-eye que: "mos dre son of
kro, wha is thi wor tho has sai? tru eve a man, i wee, is
to acc wha he may for ano man, alb he is mor and hat
not wis as we. how the was i who avo me the fir of god bot
by bir and for tha i am cal thy wif, and tho art kin amo all
imm--how was i not in min ang to dev evi aga the men of
tro?"

so deb the on thi wis wit one ano. but the of the sil
fee cam unt the hou of hep, imp, sta, far see
amo the dwe of imm, a hou of bro, wro by the
cro-foo god him. him fou she swe in toi and bus abo
his bel, for he was for tri twe in all to sta aro
the wal of his sta hal, and ben the bas of eac he had set
gol whe, tha of the own mot the mig ent the ass of
the god and aga ret unt his hou, a mar to loo upo. thu
muc wer the fin tha not yet wer awa fro the fir, and
gat all his gea whe he wor int a sil che; and wit
a spo he wip his fac and han and stu nec and sha bre,
and did on his dou, and too a sto sta and wen for lim;
but the wer han of gol tha mov to hel the lor, the
sem of liv mai. in the is und at the hea, in
the are voi and str, and the hav ski of the imm god.
the mov ben the lor, and he gat him hal nea to whe
the was, and set him on a bri sea, and cla her han in his
and spa and cal her by her nam: "whe, lon-rob the,
com tho to our hou, hon tha tho art and dea? no fre
com art tho hit. spe wha tho has at hea; my sou is fai
to acc it; if acc it i can, and if it be app for
acc."

the ans unt him the she tea: "hep, hat the
ver bee any of all god in oly tha hat end so man
gri sor at hea as are the woe tha kro zeu hat lai
upo me abo all oth? he cho me fro amo the sis of the sea
to ent me to a man, eve pel aia' son, and wit a man i
end wed sor aga my wil. now lie he in his hal for
wit gri age, but oth gri are min. a son he gav me to bea
and nou, the chi of her, and he sho up lik a you bra.
lik a pla in a ver fru fie i rea him and sen him for on
bea shi to ili to fig aga the men of tro, but nev aga
sha i wel him bac to his hom wit the hou of pel. and
whi he yet liv in my sig and beh the lig of the sun, he
sor, nei can i hel him any whi tho i go unt him. the
mai who the son of the ach cho out to be his pri, her hat
the lor aga tak bac out of his han. in gri for her was
he his hea, whi the men of tro wer dri the ach on the
shi, nor suf the to com for. and the eld of the arg
ent him, and tol ove man nob gif. the alb him he
ref to war des fro the, he put his arm on pat
and sen him to the war, and muc peo wit him. all day the fou
aro the ska gat and tha sam day had sac the tow, but tha
whe now men' val son had wro muc har, apo sle him
in the for of the bat, and gav glo unt hec. the
now com i a sup unt thy kne, if hap tho be wil to giv
my sho-liv son shi and hel, and goo gre fit wit
ank-pie, and cui. for the arm tha he had ers, his tru
com los whe he fel ben the men of tro; and my son lie on
the ear wit ang in his sou."

the mad ans unt her the lam god of gre ren: "be of goo
cou, let not the thi tro thy hea. wou tha so mig i
ava to hid him far fro dol dea, whe dre fat com upo
him, as sur sha goo arm be at his nee, suc as all men
aft sha mar at, wha may beh."

thu say he lef her the and wen unt his bel and tur the
upo the fir and bad the wor. and the bel, twe in all, ble
on the cru, sen def bla on eve sid, now to aid his
lab and now ano how hep wil and the wor wen on.
and he thr bro tha wea not int the fir, and tin and pre
gol and sil, and nex he set on an anv-sta a gre anv, and
too in his han a stu ham, and in the oth he too the ton.

fir fas he a shi gre and str, ado it all ove, and
set the a shi rim, tri, bri-gla, and the a
sil bal. fiv wer the fol of the shi its; and the
fas he muc cun wor fro his wis hea.

the wro he the ear, and the hea, and the sea, and the
unw sun, and the moo wax to the ful, and the sig eve one
whe the hea are cro, ple and hya and ori's mig,
and the bea tha men cal als the wai, her tha tur in her pla
and wat ori, and alo hat no par in the bat of oce.

als he fas the two fai cit of mor men. in the one wer
esp and mar fea, and ben the bla of tor the
wer lea the bri fro the cha thr the cit, and lou
aro the bri son. and you men wer whi in the dan, and
amo the flu and vio sou hig; and wom sta eac at her
doo wer mar. but the fol wer gat in the ass pla;
for the a str was ari, two men str abo the blo-pri of
a man sla; the one cla to pay ful ato, exp to the
peo, but the oth den him and wou tak nau. and the fol
wer che bot, as the too par on eit sid. and her kep
ord amo the fol, whi the eld on pol sto wer sit
in the sac cir, and hol in the han sta fro the
lou-voi her. the bef the peo the ros up and gav
jud eac in tur. and in the mid lay two tal of gol, to be
giv unt him who sho ple amo the mos rig.

but aro the oth cit wer two arm in sie wit gli arm.
and two cou fou fav amo the, eit to sac the tow or to
sha all wit the tow eve wha sub the fai cit
hel wit. but the bes wer not yet yie, but arm for an
amb. on the wal the sto to gua it the dea wiv and
inf chi, and wit the the old men; but the res wen for,
and the lea wer are and pal ath, bot wro in gol, and
gol was the ves the had on. goo and gre wer the in the
arm, eve as god, far see aro, and the fol at the fee wer
sma. and whe the cam whe it see goo to the to lay amb,
in a riv bed whe the was a com wat-pla of her, the
the set the, cla in gli bro. and two sco wer pos by
the afa off to spy the com of flo and of oxe wit cro
hor. and pre cam the cat, and wit the two her pla
on pip, tha too no tho of the gui. the the oth whe the
beh the ran upo the and qui cut off the her of oxe and
fai flo of whi she, and sle the she wit. but the
bes, as the sat bef the spe-pla [fro whi the ora
spo] and hea muc din amo the oxe, mou for beh the
hig-ste hor, and cam up wit spe. the the arr the
bat and fou bes the riv ban, and smo one ano wit
bro-sho spe. and amo the min str and tum, and fel
dea, gra one man ali fre-wou, ano wit wou, and
dra ano dea thr the mel by the fee; and the rai on
her sho was red wit the blo of men. lik liv mor the
hur tog and fou, and hal the cor eac of the oth's
sla.

fur he set in the shi a sof fre-plo fie, ric til
and wid, the thi tim plo; and man plo the dra
the yok to and fro as the whe abo. whe the cam to
the bou of the fie and tur, the wou a man com to eac and
giv int his han a gob of swe win, whi oth wou be
tur bac alo the fur, fai to rea the bou of the dee
til. and the fie gre bla beh and see as it wer
a-plo, alb of gol, for thi was the gre mar of the wor.

fur he set the the dem-lan of a kin, whe hin wer
rea wit sha sic in the han. som arm alo the swa
wer fal in row to the ear, whi oth the she-bin wer
bin in twi ban of str. thr she-bin sto ove the,
whi beh boy gat cor and bea it in the arm gav it
con to the bin; and amo the the kin in sil was
sta at the swa wit his sta, rej in his hea. and
hen apa ben an oak wer mak rea a fea, and pre a
gre ox the had sac; whi the wom wer str muc whi
bar to be a sup for the hin.

als he set the a vin tee ple wit clu,
wro fai in gol; bla wer the gra, but the vin hun
thr on sil pol. and aro it he ran a dit of cya, and
rou tha a fen of tin; and one sin pat led to it, whe the
vin mig go whe the sho gat the vin. and mai and
str in chi gle bar the swe fru in pla bas. and
in the mid of the a boy mad ple mus on a cle-ton vio,
and san the a swe lin-son [pro a lam for dep
sum] wit del voi; whi the res wit fee fal tog
kep tim wit the mus and son.

als he wro the a her of kin wit upr hor, and the kin
wer fas of gol and tin, and wit low the hur fro the
byr to pas bes a mur riv, bes the wav ree. and
her of gol wer fol wit the kin, fou of the, and nin
dog fle of foo cam aft the. but two ter lio amo the
for kin had sei a lou-roa bul tha bel mig as
the hal him, and the dog and the you men spe aft him. the lio
ren the gre bul's hid wer dev his vit and his bla
blo; whi the her in vai tar on the fle dog to set on,
for the shr fro bit the lio but sto har by and bar and
swe awa.

als the glo lam god wro the a pas in a fai gle, a
gre pas of whi she, and a ste, and roo hut, and
fol.

als did the glo lam god dev a dan-pla lik unt tha
whi onc in wid kno dai wro for ari of the lov
tre. the wer you dan and mai of cos woo, the
han upo one ano's wri. fin lin the mai had on, and the
you wel-wov dou fai gli wit oil. fai wre had
the mai, and the you dag of gol han fro sil
bal. and now wou the run rou wit def fee exc lig,
as whe a pot sit by his whe tha fit bet his han
mak tri of it whe it run: and now ano the wou run in lin
to mee eac oth. and a gre com sto rou the lov dan in
joy; and thr the mid of the, lea the mea, two tum
whi.

als he set the the gre mig of the riv of oce aro the
utt rim of the cun-fas shi.

now whe he had wro the shi gre and str, the wro he him
a cor bri tha a fla of fir, and he wro him a mas
hel to fit his bro, goo and gra, and set the a cre of
gol, and he wro him gre of pli tin.

so whe the ren lam god had fin all the arm, he too and
lai it bef the mot of ach. the she lik a fal spr
dow fro sno oly, bea fro hep the gli arm.



boo xix.

    how ach and aga wer rec bef the
    ass of the ach, and ach wen for wit the
    to bat.

now mor saf-rob aro fro the str of oce to bri lig
to god and men, and the cam to the shi, bea his gif fro the
god. her dea son she fou fal abo pat and utt lou
lam; and rou him man of his com mad moa. and the bri
god sto bes him in the mid, and cla her han in his and
spa and cal upo his nam: "my chi, him who lie her we mus
let be, for all our pai, for by the wil of god fro the beg was
he bro low. but tho tak fro hep arm of pri, arm
pas goo, suc as no man on his sho yet hat bor."

thu spa the god and in fro of aeh lai the arm, and the
ran all aga in the glo. and awe fel on all the myr, nor
dar any to gaz the, for the wer awe-str. but whe ach
loo the, the cam fur upo him the mor, and his eye bla
ter for as it wer a fla ben the lid: gla was he as he
hel in his han tha spl gif of a god. but whe he had sat
his sou in gaz on the glo of the arm, str to his mot
spa he win wor: "my mot, the arm the god has giv are suc
as it bes tha the wor of imm sho be, and tha no mor
man sho hav wro. now the wil i arm me in the, but i hav
gri fea les mea on the gas wou of men' val
son fli lig and bre wor the, and def his cor--for the
lif is sla out of him--and so all his fle sha rot."

the ans him the, god of the sil fee: "chi, hav no
car for thi wit thy min. i wil see to war fro him the cru
tri of fli whi pre on men sla in fig: for eve tho he lie
til a who yea's cou be run, yet his fle sha be sou
con, or bet eve tha now. but cal tho the ach war
to the pla of ass, and uns thy wra aga aga she
of the hos, and the arm swi for bat, and clo the wit thy
str."

thu say she fil him wit adv mig, whi on pat
she she amb and red nec thr his nos, tha his fle
mig abi the sam con.

but nob ach wen dow the bea of the sea, cry his ter
cry, and rou the ach war. and the who bef wer won to
abi in the cir of the shi, and the who wer hel and kep
the ste of the shi, or wer ste the and dea out foo,
eve the cam the to the pla of ass, bec ach was com
for, aft lon cea fro gri war. lim cam two of are'
com, tyd' son sta in fig and nob ody, eac lea
on his spe, for the wou wer gri sti; and the wen and
sat the dow in the for of the ass. and las cam aga
kin of men, wit his wou upo him, for him too in the str of
bat koo ant's son had wou wit his bro-tip spe. but
whe all the ach wer gat, the upr fle-foo ach
and spa in the mid: "son of atr, was thi in any wis the
bet way for bot the and me, wha tim wit gri at our hea we
wax fie in sou-dev str for the sak of a gir? wou tha
art had sla her wit her arr at the shi, on the day whe i
too her to me, whe i had spo lyr; so sho not the so man
ach hav bit the wid ear ben the ene' han, by
rea of my exc wra. it hat bee wel for hec and the
tro, but the ach i thi sha lon rem the str tha
was bet the and me. but byg wil we let be, for all our pai,
and cur und nec the spi wit our bre. i now wil sta
my ang: it bes me not imp for eve to be wro; but com
rou spe to the fig the flo-hai ach, tha i may go
for aga the men of tro and put the yet aga to the pro, if
the be fai to cou har by the shi. met tha som amo the
sha be gla to res the kne whe the are fle out of the
fie of the bat, and fro bef our spe."

he spa, and the wel-gre ach rej tha the gre-hea
son of pel had mad ren of his wra. the amo the spa
aga kin of men, spe fro the pla whe he sat, not ari
to sta for in the mid: "o dan fri and her, men of
are' com, see is it to lis to him who sta up to spe,
nor beh it to bre in upo his wor: eve tow a ski man
tha wer har. for ami the upr of man men how sho one lis,
or yet spe? eve the cle-voi spe is mar. to the son of
pel i wil dec mys, but ye oth arg giv hee, and eac
mar wel my wor. oft hav the ach spo thu to me, and
upb me; but it is not i who am the cau, but zeu and des and
eri tha wal in the dar, who put int my sou fie mad
on the day whe in the ass i, eve i, ber ach of his mee.
wha cou i do? it is god who acc all. eld dau of
zeu is ate who bli all, a pow of ban: del are her fee,
for not upo the ear she goe, but wal ove the hea of men,
mak men fal; and ent thi one or tha. ye eve zeu was
bli upo a tim, he who the say is gre amo god and men; yet
eve him her wit a fem wil dec, on the day whe alk in
fai-cro the was to bri for the str of her. for
the pro he sol amo the god: 'her me ye all, bot god
and god, whi i utt the cou of my sou wit my hea.
thi day sha eil, the hel of tra wom, bri to the
lig a man who sha be lor ove all tha dwe rou abo, amo the
rai of men who are spr of me by blo.' and to him in sub
que her spa: 'tho wil pla the che and not acc thy
wor. com now, oly, swe me a fir oat tha ver and ind
sha tha man be lor ove all tha dwe rou abo, who thi day
sha fal bet a wom's fee, eve he amo all men who are of the
lin of thy blo.' so spa she, and zeu no wis per her
sub but swa a mig oat, and the was he sor bli. for
her dar fro oly' pea and cam swi to ach arg, wer
she kne was the sta wif of sth son of per, who was als
gre wit chi, and her sev mon had com. her son her bro
to the lig, tho his tal of mon was unt, but she sta
alk's bea and kep the eil fro her aid. the she
bro the tid her and to kro' son zeu she spa: 'fat
zeu of the bri lig, a wor wil i spe to the for my hee.
tod is bor a man of val who sha rul amo the arc,
eur, son of sth the son of per, of thy lin; not
unm is it tha he be lor amo arg.' she sai, but sha pai
smo him in the dep of his sou, and str he sei ate by
her bri-hai hea in the ang of his sou, and swa a mig oat
tha nev aga to oly and the sta hea sho ate com, who
bli all ali. he sai, and whi her in his han flu her fro
the sta hea, and qui cam she dow amo the wor of men. yet
eve he gro aga her whe he beh his bel son in cru
tra at eur' hes. thu als i, wha tim gre hec of the
gla hel was sla arg at the ste of our shi, cou not
be unm of ate, who bli me at the fir. but sin thu bli
was i, and zeu ber me of my wit, fai am i to mak ame, and
rec man for the wro. onl ari tho to the bat and
rou the res of the hos. gif am i rea to off, eve all tha
nob ody wen yes to pro in thy hut. so, if tho wil,
sta awh, tho eag, fro bat, and squ sha tak the gif
fro my shi and car the to the, tha tho may see tha wha i
giv suf the."

the ans him ach swi of foo: "mos nob son of atr,
aga kin of men, for the gif, to giv the as it bes, if
so tho wil, or to wit, is in thy cho. but now let us bet
us of bat wit all spe; thi is no tim to dal her wit
sub, for a gre wor is yet und. onc mor mus ach be
see in the for of the bat, lay was wit his bra spe
the bat of the men of tro. the let eac of you thi as he
fig wit his man."

the ody of man cou ans him and sai: "nay yet, for all
thy val, god ach, not aga ili lea tho the son of
ach fas to fig the men of tro, sin not of sho spe
sha the bat be, whe onc the ran of men are met, and god sha
bre val int bot. but bid the ach tas at the swi shi
foo and win; for the is vig and mig. for no man fas fro
foo sha be abl to fig wit the foe all day til the goi dow of
the sun; for tho his spi be eag for bat yet his lim una
gro wea, and thi bes him, and hun, and his kne in his
goi fai. but the man who hav his fil of foo and win fig
thu all day aga the ene, his hea is of goo che wit him,
nor any tir his lim, ere all giv bac fro bat. so com,
dis the hos and bid the mak rea the mea. and the gif let
aga kin of men bri for int the mid of the ass, tha
all ach may beh the wit the eye, and tho be gla at hea.
and let him swe to the an oat, sta in the mid of the arg,
tha he hat nev gon up int the dam's bed or lai wit her, [o
pri, as is the won of man wit wom]; and let thi own spi be
pla wit thy bre. the let him mak the a ric fea of
rec in his hut, tha tho hav not lac of thy rig.
and tho, son of atr, tow oth als sha be mor rig
her; for no sha it is tha a man tha is a kin sho mak
ame if he hav bee the fir to dea vio."

the to him spa aga kin of men: "son of lae, i rej to
lis to thy spe; for rig has tho tol ove all. and the
oat i am wil to swe, yea my hea bid it, nor wil i for
mys bef god. let ach abi for a spa, eag for bat
tho he be, and all ye oth abi tog, unt the gif com
for fro my hut, and we mak fai oat wit sac. but the
thy i thu cha and bid. cho the you men, pri of the
ach fol, and bea my gif fro my shi, eve all tha we pro
yes to ach, and tak wit the the wom. and let tal
spe mak me rea a boa-swi in the mid of the wid ach
hos, to sac to zeu and to the sun."

and to him in ans swi-foo ach spa: "mos nob son of
atr, aga kin of men, at som oth tim wer it eve bet ye
sho be bus thu, whe hap the sha be som pau of war, and
the spi wit my bre sha be les fie. but now the lie
man on the fie--eve the who hec son of pri sle, whe zeu
gav him glo--and ye cal men to the foo. ver for my par i
wou bid the son of the ach to fig now unf and fas, and
wit the set sun mak rea a mig mea, whe we sha hav
ave the sha. til the dow my thr at lea nor foo nor dri
sha go, sin my com is dea, who in my hut is lyi man by
the sha spe, wit his fee tow the doo, and rou him our
com mou, whe in my hea to no tho of tho mat,
but of sla, and blo, and gri moa of men."

the ans him ody of man cou: "o ach, pel' son,
mig of ach far, bet and mig not a lit art tho
tha i wit the spe, but in cou i may sur the gre, sin
i was bor fir and kno mor thi: whe let thy hea end to
lis to my spe. qui hav men sur of bat, of tha whe
the swo str mos str yet is the har sca, [i.e., in a
pit bat the is lit plu, the hop of whi mig hel to
sus men's eff in sto a tow] whe zeu inc his
bal, who is dis of the war of men. but it can be tha the
ach fas to mou a cor; for exc man and thi fal suc
on eve day; whe the sho the be res fro toi? nay, it beh
to bur him who is dea, ste our hea, whe onc we hav wep him
for a day; but suc as are lef ali fro hat war mus tak tho
of mea and dri, tha yet mor aga our foe we may fig
rel eve, cla in uny bro. the let non of the hos
hol bac awa oth sum; thi is the sum, and ill sha it
be for who is lef beh at the arg shi; but all tog as one
we wil rou aga the hor-tam tro the fur of war."

he spo, and too wit him the son of nob nes, and meg son of
phy, and tho, and mer, and lyk son of kre, and
mel. and the wen on the way to the hut of aga, atr'
son. for as the wor was spo so was the dee don. sev
tri the bar fro the hut, as he pro him, and twe bri
cal, and twe hor, and ano the led for wom ski in
goo art, sev, and the eig was fai-fac bri. the
ody, hav wei ten tal of gol in all, led the way, and
wit him you men of the ach bar the gif. the the set in the
mid of the pla of ass, and aga ros up, and bes tha
she of the hos sto tal, who voi was lik a god's, and
hel a boa bet his han. and the son of atr dra wit his
han his kni, whi eve hun bes the mig sca of his
swo, cut off the fir hai fro the boa, and lif up his han
he pra to zeu, and all the arg sat sil in the pla, dul
hea to the kin. and he pra alo, loo up to the wid
hea: "be zeu bef all wit, hig and bes of the god, and
ear, and sun, and eri, who und ear tak ven upo men,
who for-swe him, tha nev hav i lai han on the
dam bri, nei to lie wit her nor any els, but she has
abo unt wit my hut. and if aug tha i swe be fal, may
the god giv me all sor man, tha the sen on him who sin
aga the in his oat."

he sai, and cut the boa's thr wit the pit kni. and the bod
tai whi and thr int the gre was of the hoa sea, to be
the foo of fis; but ach aro up and spa in the mid of the
war arg: "fat zeu, sor mad dea tho ver to men.
nev cou the son of atr hav sti the sou wit my bre,
nor led off the dam imp aga my wil, had not zeu wil
tha on man of the ach dea sho com. but now go for to you
mea, tha we may joi bat the."

thu he spa and dis the ass wit all spe. the res wer
sca eac to his own shi, but the gre-hea myr too up
the gif, and bar the to the shi of god ach. and the lai
the in the hut and set the wom the, and gal squ dra the
hor amo the tro.

but bri tha was lik unt gol aph, whe she beh
pat man by the kee spe, fel abo him and mad shr
lam, and tor wit her han her bre and ten nec, and
bea fac. and she spa ami her wee, tha wom lik unt
god: "pat, dea to my hap hea, ali i lef the
whe i lef thi hut, but now, o pri of the peo, i am com bac to
fin the dea; thu evi eve fol evi in my lot. my hus,
unt who my fat and lad mot gav me, i beh bef our cit
man wit the kee spe, and my thr bro who my own mot
bor, my nea and dea, who all met the day of doo. but tho, whe
swi ach sle my hus and was god myn' cit, wou
eve tha i sho not eve wee, and sai tha tho wou mak me
god ach' wed wif, and tha ye wou tak me in you shi
to pht and mak me a mar fea amo the myr. the
wit all my sou i mou thy dea, for tho wer eve kin."

thu spa she wee, and the the wom wai, in sem for
pat, but eac for her own woe. but rou ach gat the
eld of the ach, pra him tha he wou eat; but he den
the wit a gro: "i pra you, if any kin com wil hea to me,
bid me not sat my hea wit mea and dri, sin ter gri is
com upo me. til the sun go dow i wil abi, and end con
unt the."

he spo, and his spe mad the oth chi dep, but the two son
of atr sta, and nob ody, and nes and ido and
pho, anc kni, soo him in his exc sor, but he
cou no whi be soo unt he had ent the mou of blo war.
and bet him he sig ver hea and spa alo: "tho too, o
hap, dea of my fri, thy wou ver of yor set for
in out hut wit rea spe a sav mea, wha tim the ach
has to wag aga the hor-tam tro dol war. but now
tho lie man, and my hea wil non of mea and dri, tha sta
wit, for des of the. nou wor tha thi cou i end, not
tho i sho hea of my fat's dea, who now i wee in pht is
she big tea for lac of a son so dea, eve me tha in an ali
lan for sak of bal hel do bat wit the men of tro; nor
tho it wer my bel son who is rea for me in sky (if sti
at lea is god neo ali). for hit had my sou wit
me tru tha i alo sho per far fro hor-pas arg,
her in the tro lan, but tha tho sho ret to pht, so
tha tho mig tak me the chi in thy swi bla shi fro sky
and sho him eve--my sub and ser, and hig-roo
mig hal. for pel i wee alr mus be dea and gon, or els in
fee lif he hat sor of age, and of wai eve for bit new
of me, til he hea tha i am dea."

thu spa he wee, and the eld mou wit him, bet the
wha eac had lef at hom. and whe the son of kro beh the
sor he pit the, and for to ath spa he win wor:
"my chi, tho has the lef utt the man of thy hea. hat
ach the no lon a pla wit thy tho? he bef the
ste-pro shi sit mou his dea com; the res are gon to
the mea, but he is fas and unf. but go, dis int his bre
nec and ple amb, tha no pai of hun com on him."

thu say he spe for ath who bef was fai. and she, lik a
fal wid-win and shr-voi, hur her for fro hea
thr the upp air. so whi the ach wer arm pre
thr the cam, she in ach' bre dis nec and
ple amb, tha gri hun mig not ass his kne, and
the her was gon to the fir hou of her mig fat. the the
ach pou for fro the swi shi. as whe thi sno
flu dow fro zeu, chi ben the bla of bor bor in the
upp air, so thi fro the shi str for bri gli
hel and bos shi, str-pla cui and ash spe. and
the she the wen up to hea and all the ear aro lau in
the fla of bro, and the wen a sou ben the fee of the men,
and in the mid of the nob ach har him. his tee gna
tog, and his eye bla as it wer the fla of a fir, for int
his hea was int ang ent in. thu wro aga the men
of tro he put on the gif of the god, whi hep wro him by
his art. fir on his leg he set the fai gre fit wit sil
ank-pie, and nex he don the cui abo his bre. the
rou his sho he slu the bro swo sil-stu; the
las he too the gre and str shi, and its bri sho
afa off as the moo's. or as whe ove the sea the app to
sai the bri of a bur fir, and it bur on hig amo
the mou in som lon ste--sai who sto-bla bea
unw ove the sea, the hom of fis, afa fro the the lov:--
so fro ach' goo wel-dig shi the bri the sho
up tow hea. and he lif the sto hel and set it on his hea,
and lik a sta it sho, the hor-hai cre hel, and aro it
wav plu of gol tha hep had set thi abo the cre. the
nob ach pro him in his arm to kno whe it fit unt
him, and whe his glo lim ran fre; and it bec to him as it
wer win, and buo up the she of hos.

and for fro its sta he dre his fat's spe, hea and gre and
str: tha spe cou non oth of the ach wie, but ach
alo awa to wie it, the pel ash spe tha che gav to
his fat dea, fro a pea of pel, to be the dea of war. and
aut and alk wen abo to yok the hor, and put on the
fai bre-str, and bit wit the jaw, and str the rei
beh to the fir-bui cha. the aut too the bri las,
fit to his han, and spr up beh the hor, and aft him
mou ach arm, eff in his arm lik bri hyp.
and ter he cal upo the hor of his sir: "xan and bal,
fam chi of pod, in oth sor tak hee to bri you
cha saf bac to the dan hos, whe we hav don wit bat,
and lea him not as ye lef pat to lie the dea."

the the hor xan of gla fee mad ans unt him fro
ben the yok;--and he bow wit his hea, and all his man fel
fro the yok-cus bes the yok and tou the gro;--for the
whi-arm god her gav him spe: "yea ver for thi hou,
dre ach, we wil sti bea the saf, yet is thy dea day nig
at han, nei sha we be cau the, but a mig god, and
for fat. for not thr slo or hee of our did the men
of tro fro pat' sho str his arm, but the bes of the
god, who bri-hai let bor, sle him in the for of the
bat, and to hec gav ren. we eve wit the win of zep,
swi, the say, of all win, wel mig run; nat to the
thy it is app to be sla in fig by a god and by a man."

now whe he had thu spo the eri sta his voi. and sor
tro did fle-foo ach ans him: "xan, why pro
tho my dea? no wis beh it the. wel kno i of mys tha it
is app me to per her, far fro my fat dea and mot;
how any i wil not ref til i giv the tro sur of
war."

he sai, and wit a cry amo the for hel on his who-hoo
ste.



boo xx.

    how ach mad hav amo the men of tro.

so by the bea shi aro the, son of pel, hun for war, the
ach arm; and ove aga the the men of tro, upo the hig
gro of the pla.

but zeu bad the cal the god to cou fro man-fol oly'
bro; and she ran all abo and bad the to the hou of zeu. the
was no riv cam not up, sav onl oce, nor any nym, of all tha
hau fai thi and spr of riv and gra wat-mea. and
the cam to the hou of zeu who gat the clo, and sat the
dow in the pol col whi hep in the cun of his
hea had wro for fat zeu.

thu gat the wit the doo of zeu; nor was the ear
hee of the god' cal, but fro the sal sea cam up aft the
res, and set him in the mid, and inq con the pur of
zeu: "whe, o lor of the bri lig, has tho cal the
god aga to cou? say, pon tho som con the
tro and ach? for lo, the war and the fig of the are
kin ver nig."

and zeu, who gat the clo, ans him, say: "tho kno,
o ear, the pur wit my bre, whe i gat you
hit; eve in the per hav i reg unt the. but for me i
wil abi her, sit wit a fol of oly, whe i wil gla
my hea wit gaz; but go all ye for tha ye com amo the tro
and ach and suc the or tho, how eac of you hat a
min. for if ach alo sha fig aga the tro, not eve a
lit whi sha the hol bac the son of pel, the fle of foo.
nay, but eve afo the tre whe the loo upo him; now
the tha his wra for his fri is wax ter i fea me les
he ove the bou of fat, and sto the wal."

thu spa the son of kro, and rou una war. for on thi sid
and on tha the god wen for to war: to the com of the shi wen
her, and pal ath, and pos, ear-enf, and the hel
her, pro-emi in sub tho; and wit the wen hep
in the gre of his str, hal, but his shr leg mov
nim und him: but to the tro wen are of the gla hel, and
wit him pho of the uns hai, and arc art, and let and
xan and lau-lov aph.

now for so lon as god wer afa fro mor men, so lon wax the
ach glo, for tha ach was com for amo the, and his
lon cea fro gri bat was at an end. and the tro wer
smi wit sor tre in the lim of eve one of the, in ter
whe the beh the son of pel, fle of foo, bla in his arm,
pee of man-sla are. but whe amo the mel of men the oly
wer com dow, the lea up in her mig str, rou of hos, the
sen for ath a cry, now sta by the hol tre wit the
wal, and now on the ech sho she sho alo. and a sho
utt are aga her, ter as the bla of the sto, now
fro the hei of the cit to the tro cal cle, or aga alo
sim sho ove kal he spe.

so urg the ble god bot hos to bat, the the bur
int fie war. and ter thu the fat of god and men fro
hea abo; and fro ben pos mad the vas ear sha and
the ste mou top. the tre all the spu of man-fou
ida, and all her cre, and the cit of the tro, and the shi of
the ach. and the lor of the und, aie, had ter in
hel, and lea fro his thr in tha ter and cri alo, les the
wor be clo abo him by pos, sha of ear, and his
dwe-pla be lai bar to mor and imm--gri hal, and
vas, and lot to the god. so lou the roa ros of tha bat of
god. for aga kin pos sto pho apo wit his win
arr, and aga eny sto ath, bri-eye god, and
aga her she of the gol sha and ech cha, eve arc
art, sis of the far-dar; and aga let the str hel
her, and aga hep the gre dee-edd riv, who god
cal xan and men ska.

thu god wit god wer mat. mea ach yea abo all
to mee hec, son of pri, in the fra; for wit tha blo
chi his spi bad him sat are, stu lor of war. but
str apo, rou of hos, mov ain to go to mee the son
of pel, and fil him wit bra spi: and he mad his own voi
lik the voi of lyk the son of pri; in his sem spa
apo, son of zeu: "ain, cou of tro, whe now are thy
thr whe tho did boa to the tro lor ove thy win,
say tho wou sta up in bat aga ach, pel' son?"

and to him ain ans and sai: "son of pri, why bid tho me
thu fac the fie son of pel in bat, tho i be not fai
the? not for the fir tim now sha i mat me wit ach,
fle of foo; onc bef dra he me wit his spe fro ida, whe he
har our kin and was lyr and ped; but zeu del me
out of his han and put str int my kne tha the wer swi.
els had i fal ben the han of ach, and of ath who wen
bef and gav him lig, and urg him to sla lel and tro
wit his spe of bro. the it is imp for man to fac
ach in fig, for tha eve som god is at his sid to war off
dea. ay, and at any tim his spe fli str, nei cea
til it hav pie thr fle of man. but if god onc giv us fai
fie of bat, not lig sha he ove me, not tho he boa
him mad of bro thr."

and to him in ans spa apo son of zeu: "yea, her, pra tho too
to the eve god; for tho too, men say, was bor of aph
dau of zeu, and ach' mot is of les deg amo the god.
for thy mot is chi of zeu, his but of the anc one of the sea.
com, bea up thy unw spe aga him, let him no wis tur
the bac wit rev and bit wor."

he sai, and bre hig spi int the she of the hos, and he
wen onw thr the for of the fig, har in fla
bro. but whi-arm her fai not to dis anc' son as he
wen thr the pre of men to mee the son of pel, and gat
the god abo her she spa amo the thu: "con ye twa,
pos and ath, wit you hea, wha sha com of the thi
tha are don. her is ain gon for har in fla bro,
to mee the son of pel, and it is pho apo tha hat sen him.
com the, be it our to tur him bac str; or els let som one
of us sta lik bes ach and giv him mig pow, so tha
he fai not in his spi, but kno tha the who lov him are the bes
of the imm, and tha the who fro of old war war and fig
fro the tro are vai as win. all we fro oly are com dow to
min in thi fig tha he tak no hur amo the tro on thi
day--aft he sha suf wha thi fat spa for him wit
her thr, at his beg, whe his mot bar him. if ach
lea not thi fro voi div, the sha he be afr whe som god
sha com aga him in the bat; for god rev are har to loo
upo."

the to her mad ans pos, sha of the ear: "her, be not
fie bey wis; it beh the not. not fai am i at lea to
mat god wit god in str. let us go now int som hig pla apa
and sea us the to wat, and bat sha be lef to men. onl if
are or pho apo fal to fig, or put con upo ach
and hin him fro fig, the str amo us too sha go up the
bat-cry of str; rig soo, met, sha the hie the fro the
iss of the fra bac to oly to the com of the god, ove
by the for of our han."

thu spa the blu-hai god, and led the way to the mou wal of
hea-spr her, tha lof wal bui him by the tro and
pal ath, tha he mig esc the mon and be saf fro him,
wha tim he sho mak his ons fro the bea to the pla. the
sat the dow pos and the oth god, and clo the sho
wit imp clo. and the of the oth par sat dow on the
bro of kal aro the, arc pho, and are was of
cit. thu the on eit sid sat dev cou, but shr all
fro fal to gri war, and zeu fro his hig sea com
the.

mea the who pla was fil wit men and hor and abl wit
bro; and the ear ran wit the fee of the as the rus tog
in the fra. two men far bet tha the res wer mee in the mid
bet the hos, eag for bat, ain, anc' son, and nob
ach. fir cam on ain thr, tos his str hel;
his rap shi he hel bef his bre, and bra his bro
spe. and on the oth sid the son of pel rus to mee him lik a
lio, a rav lio who men des to sla, a who tri ass:
and fir he goe his way unh, but whe som war you hat
smi him wit a spe, the he gat him ope-mou, and
foa com for abo his tee, and his sto spi gro in his
hea, and wit his tai he sco eit sid his rib and fla
and goa him on to fig, and gla is bor str on the
by his pas, to try whe he sha sla som man of the, or
whe him sha per in the for of the thr: thu was
ach dri of his pas and val spi to go for to mee
ain gre of hea. and whe the wer com nea aga eac oth,
the fir to ain spa fle-foo nob ach: "ain,
whe has tho so far com for fro the cro to sta aga
me: dot thy hea bid the fig wit me in hop of hol pri's
hon and lor amo the hor-tam tro? nay, tho tho
sla me, not for tha wil pri lay his kin in thy han, for he
hat son, and is sou and of uns min. or hav the tro
all the som lot of gro mor cho tha all the res, fai
lan of til and orc, tha tho may dwe the, if tho sla
me? but met tho wil fin the sla har; for onc bef, i
wee, hav i mad the fle bef my spe. hos tho for the day
whe tho wer alo wit the kin, and i mad the run swi-foo
dow ida's ste in has?--the did tho not loo beh the in thy
fli. the fle tho to ler, but i was it, hav
fou aga it wit the hel of ath and of fat zeu, and
car awa wom cap, ber the of the day of fre: onl
the zeu shi, and oth god. but not thi tim, met, sha
the shi the, as tho ima in thy hea: the i bid the
go bac int the thr and com not for aga me, whi as yet tho
art unh--aft the eve eve a foo is wis."

the to him in ans aga ain spa: "son of pel, thi not
wit wor to aff me as a chi, sin i too wel kno mys how
to spe tau and unj spe. we kno eac oth's rac and lin
in tha we hav hea the fam pro by mor men, but nev has
tho set eye on my par, or i on thi. tho, the say, art son of
nob pel, and of the of the fai tre, the dau of the
sea: the sir i boa is anc gre of hea, and my mot is
aph. of the sha one pai or the oth mou the dea son
tod; for ver not wit idl wor sha we two sat our str
and dep out of the bat. but, if tho wil, lea als thi, tha
tho may wel kno our lin, kno to ful man men: fir zeu
the clo-gat beg dar, and he sta dar, for not
yet was hol ili bui upo the pla to be a cit of mor men, but
sti the dwe on slo of man-fou ida. the dar beg a
son, kin eri, who bec ric of mor men. thr tho
mar had he tha pas alo the mar mea, rej in the
ten foa. of the was bor ena as the gra, and in
sem of a dar-man hor he cov the: the the hav
con bar twe fil. the whe the bou ove ear the
gra-giv wou run upo the top rip ear of cor and bre
the not; and whe the bou ove the bro bac of the sea the
wou run upo the cre of the bre of the hoa bri. the
eri beg tro to be loa ove the tro, and to tro thr
nob son wer bor, ilo and ass and god gan, who
bec the mos bea of mor men. him the god cau up to be
cup to zeu, for sak of his bea, tha he mig dwe amo
imm. the ilo aga beg a son, nob lao, and lao
beg tit and pri and lam and kly and hik, of the
sto of are. and ass beg kap, and kap anc, and
anc me; but pri beg the goo hec.

"lo the of thi blo and lin dec i mys unt the. but for
val, zeu inc it in men or min it acc as he wil,
for he is lor of all. but com, let us tal thu tog no lon
lik chi, sta in mid ons of war. for the are rev in
ple for bot of us to utt--a hun-thw shi wou not
suf for the loa of the. gli is the ton of man, and man wor
are the of eve kin, and wid is the ran of his spe hit
and thi. wha wor tho spe, suc wil tho hea in ans.
but wha nee tha we sho ban str and wra eac aga
eac. not by spe sha tho tur me fro the bat tha i des,
unt we hav fou tog, poi to poi: com the, and
str we wil eac try the oth wit bro-hea spe."

he sai, and aga tha oth's dre and mig shi hur his
gre spe, and the shi ran lou ben the spe-poi. and the
son of pel hel awa the shi fro him wit his sto han, in
fea, for he tho tha the far-sha spe of ain gre of
hea wou lig pie it thr--fon man, and kne not in his
min and hea tha not lig do the glo gif of god yie to
for of mor men. so did not the gre spe of wis ain pie
tha shi, for the gol res it, eve the gif of the god. yet
thr two fol he dra it, but thr rem, for fiv fol had
the lam god wel, two bro, and two ins of tin, and one of gol;
the was sta the ash spe.

the ach in his tur hur his far-sha spe, and smo upo
the cir of the shi of ain, ben the edg of the rim, whe
the bro ran thi rou, and the bul-hid was thi the;
and rig thr spe the pel ash spe, and the shi cra
und it. and ain cro and hel up the shi awa fro him in
dre; and the spe fle ove his bac and fix its in the ear,
hav div asu the two cir of the she shi. and
hav esc the lon spe he sto sti, and a vas ang dro
his eye, aff tha the spe was pla by him so nig. but
ach dre his sha swo and fur mad at him, cry his
ter cry: the ain gra in his han a sto (a mig dee)
suc as two men, as men now are, wou not ava to lif, but he wit
eas wie it all alo. the wou ain hav smi him wit the
sto as he cha, eit on hel or shi, whi had war fro him
bit dea, and the wou the son of pel hav clo and sla him
wit his swo, had not pos, sha of ear, mar it wit spe,
and str spo amo the imm god: "ala, woe is me for
ain gre of hea, who qui wil go dow to had sla by the
son of pel, for tha he wil obe the wor of apo the far-dar,
fon man, but now sha the god hel him fro gri dea. but
whe now is he to suf ill in his inn, cau for
oth' wic, yet wel eve are his off to the god who
inh the spa hea? com, let us gui him out of dea's way,
les the son of kro be wro, if ach sla him; for it is
app to him to esc, tha the rac of dar per not wit
see or sig, eve dar who the son of kro lov abo all the
chi bor to him fro the dau of men. for the rac of pri
hat zeu alr hat. but thu sha the mig of ain rei amo
the tro, and his chi's chi, who sha be bor in the
aft."

and him the ans her the ox-eye que: "sha of ear, thy
wit thi own min tak cou, whe tho wil sav ain, or
lea him [to be sla, bra tho he be, by ach, pel' son].
for by man oat amo all the imm hav we two swo, eve pal
ath and i, nev to hel the tro fro the evi day, not eve
whe all tro sha bur in the bur of fie fir, and the tha
bur her sha be the war son of the ach."

now whe pos sha of ear hea tha, he wen up ami the bat
and the cla of spe, and cam whe ain and ren ach
wer. the pre he she mis ove the eye of ach, pel'
son, and dre the bro-hea ash spe fro the shi of ain
gre of hea, and set it bef ach' fee, and lif ain
and swu him hig fro off the ear. ove man ran of war, of
hor man, spr ain soa in the han of the god, and lig
at the far ver of the bat of man ons, whe the kau
wer arr the for the fig. the har bes him cam pos,
sha of ear, and spa alo to him win wor: "ain, wha god
is it tha bid the fig inf aga pel' veh son,
who is bot a bet man tha tho and dea to imm? rat
wit the whe tho fal in wit him, les eve con to
thy fat tho ent the hou of had. but whe ach sha hav met
his dea and doo, the be tho of goo cou to fig amo the
for, for the sha non oth of the ach sla the."

he spo, and lef him the, whe he had sho him all the thi.
the qui fro ach' eye he pur the mag mis; and he sta
wit wid eye, and in tro spa unt his pro sou: "ha! ver a
gre mar beh i her wit min eye. my spe lie her upo the
gro, nor can i any see the man at who i hur it wit int to
sla him. tru the is ain lik dea to the imm god,
how i dee tha his boo the was alt van. awa
wit him! not aga wil he fin hea to mak tri of me, now tha
onc mor he has esc dea to his joy. but com, i wil cal on the
war dan and go for to mak tri of som oth tro fac to
fac."

he sai, and lea alo the lin, and cal upo eac man: "no lon
sta afa fro the men of tro, nob ach, but com let man mat
man and thr his sou int the fig. har is it for me, tho i be
str, to ass so vas a fol and fig the all: not eve are,
tho an imm god, nor ath, cou plu int the jaw of suc a
fra and toi the. but to my utm pow wit han and fee and
str no whi, i say, wil i be sla, nay, nev so lit, but
rig thr the lin wil i go for, nor dee i tha any tro
sha be gla who sha com nig my spe."

thu spa he urg the. but to the tro glo hec cal
alo, and pro tha he wou go for aga ach:
"hig-hea tro, fea not pel' son. i too in wor cou fig
eve imm, but wit the spe it wer har, for the are str
far. nei sha ach acc all his tal, but par the he
is to acc, and par to bre asu in the mid. and aga
him wil i go for, tho the han of him be eve as fir, yea tho
his han be as fir and his fie as the fla ste."

thu spa he urg the, and the tro rai the spe for
bat; and the fie was min con, and the bat-cry
aro. the pho apo sto by hec and spa to him: "hec, no
lon cha ach at all bef the lin, but in the thr
awa him and fro ami the roa of the bat, les hap he spe the
or com nea and smi the wit his swo."

thu spa he, and hec aga fel bac int the cro of men, for he
was ama whe he hea the sou of a god's voi.

but ach spr in amo the tro, his hea clo wit
str, cry his ter cry, and fir he too iph,
otr' val son, a lea of muc peo, bor of a nai nym
to otr was of cit, ben sno tmo, in hyd's ric
dom. him as he cam rig on did goo ach smi wit his
hur spe, dow thr the mid of his hea, and it was ren
asu utt. and he fel wit a cra, and goo ach exu
ove him; "her is thy dea, thy bir was on the gyg lak, whe is
thy sir's dem, by hyl ric in fis and edd her."

thu spa he exu, but dar fel upo the eye of iph: him
the cha of the ach cla wit the tir asu in the
for of the bat, and ove him ach pie in the tem,
thr his bro-che hel, dem, bra ste of bat,
ant's son. no sto mad the bro hel, but the spe the
spe-hea and cla the bon, and the bra wit was all sca:
tha str mad end of his zea. the hip, as he lea fro
his cha and fle bef him, ach wou in the bac wit his
spe: and he bre for his spi wit a roa, as whe a dra
bul roa tha the you men dra to the alt of the lor of hel;
for in suc hat the ear his del: thu roa hip as
fro his bon fle for his hau spi. but ach wit his
spe wen on aft god pol, pri's son. him wou his sir
con for to fig, for tha amo his chi he was you
bor and bes bel, and ove all in fle of foo. jus the
in boy fol, dis the swi of his fee, he was rus
thr the for, unt he los his lif. him in the mid did
fle-foo nob ach smi wit a jav, in his bac as he
dar by, whe his bel's gol buc cla, and the bre and
bac pla ove: and rig thr bes the nav wen the
spe-hea, and he fel on his kne wit a cry, and dar clo cov
him rou abo, and he cla his bow to him wit his han as he
san.

the whe hec saw his bro pol cla his bow wit his
han, and sin to the ear, a mis fel ove his eye, nor lon
mig he end to ran so far apa, but he cam up aga ach
bra his sha spe, and lik fla of fir. and ach whe
he saw him, spr up, and spa exu: "beh the man who hat
dee str int my sou, who sle my dea-pri fri; not lon
sha we now shr fro eac oth alo the hig of the war."

he sai, and loo gri spa unt goo hec: "com tho nea,
tha the soo tho may arr at the goa of dea."

the to him, unt, sai hec of the gla hel: "son of
pel, thi not wit wor to aff me as a chi, sin i too kno
mys how to spe tau and unj spe. and i kno tha tho art a
man of mig, and a far bet man tha i. yet dot thi iss lie in
the lap of the god, whe i tho wea sha tak thy lif wit my
hur spe, for min too hat bee fou kee ere now."

he sai, and poi his spe and hur it, and ath wit a bre
tur it bac fro glo ach, bre ver lig; and it
cam bac to goo hec, and fel the bef his fee. the
ach set fie upo him, eag to sla him, cry his ter
cry. but apo cau hec up, ver eas, as a god may, and hid him
in thi mis. thr the did fle-foo nob ach mak ons
wit his spe of bro, and thr smo the thi mis. [but whe the
fou tim he had com god on,] the wit dre sho he spa to
him win wor: "dog, tho art now aga esc fro dea; yet cam
ill ver nig the; but now hat pho apo sav the, to who tho
mus sur pra whe tho goe for ami the cla of spe. ver
i wil sla the yet whe i mee the her, if any god is hel of
me too. now wil i mak aft the res, who i may sei."

thu spe he pie dry in the mid of his nec wit his spe,
and he fel dow bef his fee. but he lef him whe he lay, and
hur at dem phi's son, a goo man and a tal, and sta him
wit a str upo his kne; the smo him wit his mig swo and
ref him of lif. the spr on lao and dar, son of bia,
he thr bot fro the cha to the gro, one wit a spe-cas
smi and the oth in clo bat wit his swo. the tro,
ala's son--he cam and cla his kne to pra him to spa him,
and let him liv, and sla him not, hav com on his lik
age, fon foo, and kne not tha he mig not gai his pra; for
now sof of hea or ten was tha man, but of fie moo--wit
his han he tou ach' kne, eag to ent him, but he smo
him in the liv wit his swo, and his liv fel fro him, and bla
blo the fil his bos, and he swo, and dar cov
his eye. the ach cam nea and str mul in the ear, and
rig thr the oth ear wen the bro spe-hea. the he smo
age's son ech on the mid of the hea wit his hil swo,
and all the swo gre hot the wit blo; and dar dea sei his
eye, and for fat. the nex deu, jus whe the sin of
the elb joi, the pie he him thr the for wit his bro
spe-hea; so abo he wit his arm wei dow, beh dea
bef him; and ach smi the nec wit his swo swe far bot
hea and hel, and the mar ros out of the bac, and the cor
lay str upo the ear. the wen he onw aft pei' nob
son, rhi, who had com fro dee-soi thr: him in the mid he
smo wit his hur jav, and the poi fix in his lun, and he
fel for of his cha. and are his squ, as he tur the
hor rou, he pie in the bac wit his sha spe, and thr
him fro the car, and the hor ran wil wit fea.

as thr dee gle rag fie fir on som par mou-sid,
and the dee for bur, and the win dri it whi eve way
the fla, so rag he eve way wit his spe, as it had bee a god,
pre har on the men he sle; and the bla ear ran wit blo.
for eve as whe one yok wid-bro bul to tre whi bar in a
sta thr-flo, and qui is it tro out ben the
fee of the lou-low bul, thu ben gre-hea ach his
who-hoo hor tra cor and shi tog; and wit
blo all the axl bel was spr and the rim tha ran aro
the car, for blo-dro fro the hor' hoo spl the, and
blo-dro fro the tir of the whe. but the son of pel pre
on to win him glo, fle wit gor his irr han.



boo xxi.

    how ach fou wit the riv, and cha the men of
    tro wit the gat.

but whe now the cam unt the for of the fai-flo riv, eve
edd xan, who imm zeu beg, the sun the he
cha the one par to the pla tow the cit, eve whe the
ach wer fly in aff the day bef, whe glo hec
was in his fur--thi pou som in fli, and her spr bef
the thi mis to hin the:--but hal wer pen int the
dee-flo sil edd riv, and fel the wit a mig noi,
and the ste cha sou, and the ban aro ran lou; for
wit sho the swa the hit and thi whi rou the
edd. and as whe at the rus of fir loc tak win to fly unt a
riv, and the unw fir fla for on the wit sud ons,
and the hud in the wat; so bef ach was the str of
dee-edd xan fil wit the roa and the thr of hor and
men.

the the see of zeu lef beh him his spe upo the ban, lea
aga tam bus, and lea in, as it wer a god, kee his
swo alo, and dev gri wor at hea, and smo as he tur him
eve way abo: and the gro wen up gha as the wer
str by the swo, and the wat red wit blo. as bef a
dol of hug maw fly oth fis and fil the noo of som
fai-hav bay, in ter, for he dev ama whi of the
he may cat; so alo the cha of tha dre str the tro
cro ben the pre sid. and whe his han wer wea of
sla he cho twe you men ali out of the riv, an ato
for pat, men' son tha was dea. the bro he for
ama lik faw, and bou beh the the han wit wel-cut
tho, whi the the wor on the pli dou, and gav
the to his com to lea dow to the hol shi. the aga he
mad his ons, ath for sla.

the met he a son of dar pri, in fli out of the riv,
lyk, who onc him he too and bro unw out of his
fat's orc, in a nig ass; he was cut wit kee bro
you sho of a wil fig tre, to be han-rai of a cha; but to
him an unl-for ban cam goo ach. and at tha tim he sol
him int wel-peo lem, sen him on shi boa, and the son of
jas gav a pri for him; and the a gue fri fre him wit a
gre ran, eet of imb, and sen him to goo ari; whe
fly sec he cam to his fat's hou. ele day he rej
amo his fri aft he was com fro lem, but on the twe onc
mor god bro him int the han of ach, who was to sen him to
the hou of had tho now fai to go. him whe fle-foo nob
ach saw bar of hel and shi, nei had he a spe, but had
thr all to the gro; for he swe gri as he tri to fle
out of the riv, and his kne wer fai him for wea: the in
wra spa ach to his gre hea: "ha! ver gre mar is
thi tha i beh wit my eye. sur the wil the pro tro who
i hav sla ris up aga fro ben the mur glo, sin thu hat
thi man com bac esc fro his pit fat, tho sol int
goo lem, nei hat the dee of the hoa sea sta him, tha
hol man aga the wil. but com the, of our spe's poi
sha he tas, tha i may see and lea in my min whe lik he
sha com bac eve fro ben, or whe the lif-giv ear
sha hol him dow, she tha hol so eve the str."

thu pon he in his pla; but the oth cam nea ama, fai to
tou his kne, for his sou lon exc to fle fro evi dea
and bla des. the goo ach lif his lon spe wit
int to smi him, but he sto and ran und it and cau his
kne; and the spe wen ove his bac and sto in the gro,
hun for fle of men. the lyk bes him, wit one han
hol his kne, whi wit the oth he hel the sha spe and
loo it not, and spa to him win wor: "i cry the mer,
ach; hav tho reg and pit for me: to the, o fos of
zeu, am i in the bon of sup. for at thy tab fir i
tas mea of dem on the day whe tho did tak me cap in the
wel-ord orc, and did sel me awa fro my fat and my
fri unt goo lem, and i fet the the pri of a hun
oxe. and now hav i bee ran for thr tha, and thi is my
twe mor sin i cam to ili aft muc pai. now onc aga hat
rui fat del me unt thy han; sur i mus be hat of
fat zeu, tha he hat giv me a sec tim unt the; and to sho
lif my mot bar me, lao, old alt' dau--alt who rul
amo the war-lov lel, hol ste ped on the sat.
his dau pri had to wif, wit man oth, and of her wer we two
bor, and tho wil but bot. him amo the for of the
foo-sol did tho lay low, eve god pol, whe tho
smo him wit the sha spe: and now wil it go har wit me her,
for no hop hav i to esc thy han, sin god hat del me
the. yet one thi wil i tel the, and do tho lay it to hea:
sla me not, sin i am not of the sam mot as hec, who sle thy
com the gen and bra."

thu spa to him the nob son of pri, bes him wit wor, but
he hea a voi imp: "fon foo, pro me no ran, nor the
wor. unt pat met his fat day, the was it wel to my
sou to spa the men of tro, and man i too ali and sol bey the
sea: but now the is non sha esc dea, who bef ili
god sha del int my han--yes, eve amo all tro, but
chi amo pri's son. ay, fri, tho too mus die: why
lam tho? pat is dea, who was bet far tha tho. see
tho not als wha man of man am i for mig and goo? and a
goo man was my fat, and a god mot bar me. yet ove me too
han dea and for fat. the com mor or eve or som noo
whe my lif too som man sha tak in bat, whe wit spe he
smi or arr fro the str."

thu spa he, and the oth's kne and hea wer uns. he let go
ach' spe, and sat wit bot han out. but ach dre
his sha swo and smo on the col-bon bes the nec, and all
the two-edg swo san int him, and he lay str pro upo the
ear, and blo flo dar fro him and soa the ear. him sei
ach by the foo and sen him dow the str, and ove him exu
spa win wor: "the lie tho amo the fis, whi sha lic
off thy wou's blo hee, nor sha thy mot lay the on a bed
and mou for the, but ska sha bea the on his edd int
the bro bos of the sea. lea alo the wav sha man a fis
dar up to the dar rip to eat of the whi fle of lyk. so
per all, unt we rea the cit of sac ili, ye fly and i
beh des. nor eve the riv, fai-flo, sil-edd,
sha ava you, to who lon tim for ye sac man bul, and
amo his edd thr who-hoo hor dow ali. for all thi yet
sha ye die the dea, unt ye pay all for pat' sla and the
sla of ach who at the swi shi ye sle whi i tar
afa."

thu spa he, but the riv wax eve mor wro in his hea, and
sou in his sou how he sho sta goo ach fro his wor, and
war des fro the tro. mea the son of pel wit his
far-sha spe lea, fai to sla him, upo ast son of
pel, who wid-flo axi beg of per eld of the
dau of ake. upo him set ach, and ast sto
aga him fro the riv, hol two spe; for xan put cou
int his hea, bei ang for the sla you who ach
was sla alo the str and had no pit on the. the whe the
twa wer com nig in ons on eac oth, unt him fir spa
fle-foo nob ach: "who and whe art tho of men, tha
dar to com aga me? ill-fat are the who chi mat the
wit my mig."

and to him, mad ans pel's nob son: "hig-hea son of
pel, why ask tho my lin? i com fro dee-soi pai, a
lan far off, lea pai men wit the lon spe, and thi now
is the ele mor sin i am com to ili. my lin is of
wid-flo axi, who beg pel fam wit the spe, and he, men
say, was my fat. now fig we, nob ach!"

thu spa he in def, and goo ach lif the pel ash:
but the war ast hur wit bot spe tog, for he
cou use bot han ali, and wit the one spe smo the shi, but
pie it not rig thr, for the gol sta it, the gif of a god;
and wit the oth he gra the elb of ach' rig arm, and the
lea for dar blo, but the poi bey him fix its in the
ear, eag to bat on fle. the in his tur ach hur on
ast his str-fly ash, fai to hav sla him, but mis
the man and str the hig ban, and qui hal its len in the
ban he lef the ash spe. the the son of pel dre his sha
swo fro his thi and lea fie at him, and he ava not to
dra wit his sto han ach' ash sha fro the ste ban.
thr sho he it str to dra it for, and thr gav up the
str, but the fou tim he was fai to ben and bre the ash
spe of the see of aia, but ere tha ach clo on him ref
him of lif wit his swo. for in the bel he smo him bes the
nav, and all his bow gus out to the ear, and dar cov
his eye as he lay gas. the ach tra on his bre
str off his arm and spa exu: "lie the! it is har to
str aga chi of kro' mig son, eve tho one be spr
fro a riv-god. tho tru dec thy the see of a
wid-flo riv, but i avo me of the lin of gre zeu. my sir
is a man rul man myr, pel the son of aia, and aia was
beg of zeu. as zeu is mig tha sea-mur riv, so
is the see of zeu mad mig tha the see of a riv. nay, the
is har bes the a gre riv, if he may any ava; but aga
zeu the son of kro it is not pos to fig. for him not eve
kin ach is mat, nor yet the gre str of dee-flo
oce, fro who all riv flo and eve sea, and all spr and dee
wel: yea, eve he hat fea of the lig of gre zeu and his
dre thu, whe it pea out of hea."

he sai, and fro the ste ban dre his bro spe, and lef the
ast who he had sla, lyi in the san, and the dar wat
flo him. aro him eel and fis swa, tea and gna the
fat abo his kid. but ach wen on aft the cha pai
who sti alo the edd riv hud in fea, whe the saw the
bes man in the str of bat sla vio by the han and the
swo of the son of pel. the sle he the and myd and
ast and mne and thr and ain and oph; and mor
yet of the pai wou swi ach hav sla, had not the
dee-edd riv cal unt him in wra, in sem of a man, and
fro an edd's dep sen for a voi: "o ach, thy mig and thy
evi wor are bey the mea of men; for god the are eve
hel the. if ind the son of kro hat del the all the
tro to des, at lea dri the for fro me and do thy gri
dee on the pla, for fil wit dea men is my ple bed, nor
can i pou my str to the gre sea, bei cho wit dea, and tho
sla rut. com the, let be; i am ast, o cap of
hos."

and to him ans ach fle of foo: "so be it, hea-spr
ska, eve as tho bid. but the pro tro i wil not cea
fro sla unt i hav dri the int the cit, and hav mad
tri wit hec fac to fac whe he is to van me or i him."

thu say, he set upo the tro, lik a god. the unt apo spa
the dee-edd riv: "out on it, lor of the sil bow, chi of
zeu, tho has not kep the ord of kro' son, who cha the
str to sta by the tro and to hel the, unt eve com wit
lig lat-set, and dar the dee-soi ear."

he sai, and spe-fam ach spr fro the ban and lea int
his mid; but he rus on him in a fur wav, and sti up all
his str in tum, and swe dow the man dea who lay thi in
him, sla by ach; the out to lan he cas wit bel lik a
bul, and sav the liv und his fai str, hid the wit
edd dee and wid. but ter aro ach aro his tum
wav, and the str smo vio aga his shi, nor ava he
to sta fir upo his fee. the he gra a tal fai-gro elm, and
it fel upr and tor awa all the ban, and rea ove the fai
riv bed wit its thi sho, and ste the riv him, fal
all wit him: and ach, str out of the edd, mad has to
fly ove the pla wit his swi fee, for he was afr. but the gre
god cea not, but aro upo him wit dar on his cre, tha he
mig sta nob ach fro sla, and war des fro the
men of tro. and the son of pel rus awa a spe's thr, wit the
swo of a bla eag, the mig hun, str at onc and
swi of win bir. lik him he spe, and on his bre the bro
ran ter as he fle fro ben the ons, and beh him the
riv rus on wit a mig roa. as whe a fie-wat fro a dar
spr lea wat alo a bed thr cro and gar gro, a
mat in his han, cas for hin fro the dit, and as it
flo all peb are swe dow, and swi gli it mur
dow a slo pla, and out him tha is its gui:--thu eve
the riv wav cau up ach for all his spe; for god are
mig tha men. for whe fle-foo nob ach str
to sta aga it, and kno whe all imm be upo him who
inh spa hea, the wou a gre wav of the hea-spr
riv bea upo his sho fro abo, and he spr upw wit his
fee, sor vex at hea; and the riv was wea his kne wit
vio rus ben, dev the ear fro und his fee. the the
son of pel cri alo, loo up to the bro hea: "zeu,
fat, how dot non of the god tak it on him in pit to sav me fro
the riv! aft tha let com to me wha may. non oth of the
inh of hea is cha so muc, but onl my dea mot,
who beg me wit fal wor, say tha und the wal of the
mai-cla men of tro i mus die by the swi arr of apo. wou
tha hec had sla me, the bes of men bre her: the bra had bee
the sla, and a bra man had he sla. but now by a sor dea am i
doo to die, pen in thi mig riv, lik a swi boy who a
tor swe dow as he ess to cro it in a sto."

thu spa he, and qui pos and ath cam nea and sto
bes him, in the lik of men, and tak his han in the
ple him in wor. and the fir tha spa was pos, sha of
the ear: "son of pel, tre not, nei be afr; suc hel
of the are we fro the god, app of zeu, eve pal ath and
i, for to be van of a riv is not app the, but he wil
soo giv bac, and tho wil thy per it: but we wil giv the
wis cou, if tho wil obe it; hol not thy han fro haz
bat unt wit ili' fam wal tho hav pen the tro hos,
eve all tha fle bef the. but do tho, whe tho has tak the
lif of hec, go bac unt the shi; thi glo we giv unt the to
win."

the hav thu spo dep to the imm, but he tow the
pla--for the bid of god was str upo him--wen onw; and all
the pla was fil wit wat-flo, and man bea arm and
cor of sla you wer dri the. so upw spr his kne
as he rus aga the str rig on, nor sta him the
wid-flo riv, for ath put gre str in him. nei did
ska sla his fie, but yet mor rag aga the son of
pel, and he cur cre the bil of his str, lif
him on hig, and on sim he cal wit a sho: "dea bro,
the str of thi man let us bot joi to sta, sin qui he wil
lay was the gre cit of kin pri, and the tro abi not in the
bat. hel me wit spe, and fil thy str wit wat fro thy
spr, and urg on all thy tor, and rai up a gre wav, and
sti hug roa of tre-stu and sto, tha we may sta the fie
man who now is lor it, and dee him mat for god. for
nei, i wee, wil str ava him nor com any, nor
tha arm bea, whi dee ben the flo sha be o'erl
wit sli, and him i wil wra him in my san and pou rou him
cou shi wit sti, nor sha the ach kno whe to
gat his bon, so vas a shr of sil wil i hea ove the. whe
he die the sha be his tom, nei sha he hav nee of any
bar to be rai, whe the ach mak his fun."

he sai, and rus in tum on ach, rag fro on hig,
thu wit foa and blo and bod of dea men. the did a dar
wav of the hea-spr riv sta tow up and ove the son
of pel. but her cri alo in ter of ach, les the gre
dee-edd riv swe him awa, and str she cal to
hep, her dea son: "ris, lam god, o my son; it was aga the
we tho tha edd xan was mat in fig. hel wit all
spe, put for lar bla of fla. the wil i go to rai a str
sto out of the sea of the wes win and the whi sou whi sha
utt con the dea tro and the arm, blo the ang
fla. tho alo xan' ban bur up his tre and wra him in
fir, nor let him any tur the bac by sof wor or by thr, nor
sta thy rag--onl whe i cry to the wit my voi, the hol the
unw fir."

thu spa she, and hep mad rea fie-bla fir. fir on
the pla fir bla, and bur the man dea who lay the thi,
sla by ach; and all the pla was par and the bri wat
sta. and as whe in lat sum the nor win swi par a new
wat orc, and he tha til it is gla, thu was the who
pla par, and hep con the dea; the aga the riv
he tur his gle fla. elm bur and wil tre and tam,
and lot bur and rus and gal whi rou the fai str of
the riv gre in mul. and the eel and fis ben the edd
wer aff, whi thr the fai str tum thi way and
tha, in ang at the bla of cra hep. and the str riv
bur, and spa and cal to him by nam: "hep, the is no
god can mat wit the, nor wil i fig the thu abl wit fir.
cea str, yea, let nob ach dri the tro for out of
the cit; wha hav i to do wit str and suc?"

thu spa he, bur wit fir, for his fai str wer bub. and
as a cau boi wit, bes wit muc fir, mel the lar of
som fat hog spu up on all sid, and log of fir lie
the,--so bur his fai str in the fir, and the wat
boi. he had no min to flo, but ref him, for the bre of
cun hep vio aff him. the unt her, ear
bes her,' he spa win wor: "her, whe hat thy son
ass my str to vex it abo oth? i am les cha tha all
the res tha are hel of the tro. but lo, i wil giv ove, if
tho wil, and let thy son giv ove too. and i fur wil swe eve
thi, tha nev wil i war the day of evi fro the tro, not eve
whe all tro is bur in the bla of hun fir, and the war
son of ach are the bur the."

the whe the whi-arm god her hea his spe, str she
spa unt hep her dea son: "hep, hol, fam son; it
bef not thu for mor' sak to do vio to an imm god."

thu sai she and hep que the fie-bla fir, and the
wav onc mor rol dow the fai riv-bed.

so whe the rag of xan was ove, bot cea, for her sta
the, tho in wra. but amo the oth god fel gri bit
str, and the hea wer car div in the bre. and the
cla tog wit a gre noi, and the wid ear gro, and the
cla of gre hea ran aro. zeu hea as he sat upo oly,
and his hea wit him lau ple whe he beh tha str
of god. the no lon sto the asu, for are pie of shi
beg the bat and fir mad for ath wit his bro spe, and
spa a tau wor: "whe, o dog, dos tho mat god wit
god in str, wit sto dar, as thy gre spi mov the?
rem tho not how tho mov dio tyd' son to wou me,
and thy did tak a vis spe and thr it str at me and
pie thr my fai ski? the dee i now tha tho sha pay me
for all tha tho has don."

thu say he smo on the dre tas aeg tha not eve the
lig of zeu can ove--the smo blo are wit his
lon spe. but she, giv bac, gra wit sto han a sto tha
lay upo the pla, bla, rug, hug, whi men of old tim set to be
the lan of a fie; thi hur she, and smo imp are on
the nec, and uns his lim. sev roo he cov in his fal,
and soi his hai wit dus, and his arm ran upo him. and pal
ath lau, and spa to him win wor exu: "foo, not
eve yet has tho lea how far bet tha tho i cla to be, tha
thu tho mat thy mig wit min. thu sha tho sat thy
mot's cur, who dev mis aga the in her wra, for
tha tho has lef the ach and giv the pro tro's aid."

thu hav sai she tur fro him her shi eye. him did aph
dau of zeu tak by the han and lea awa, gro con,
for sca gat he his spi bac to him. but whe the whi-arm
god her was awa of the, str she spa unt ath win
wor: "out on it, chi of aeg-bea zeu, mai inv, lo
the the dog is lea are des of men out of the fra of
bat dow the thr--nay the, pur her."

she sai, and ath spe aft her wit hea exu, and mad at her
and smo her wit sto han upo the bre, and str her kne
and hea wer uns. so the twa lay on the bou ear, and
she spa win wor exu: "suc let all be who giv the tro
aid whe the fig aga the mai arg. be the eve so bol and
bra as aph whe she cam to suc are and def my mig.
the sho we lon ago hav cea fro war, hav lai was the
sta cit of ili."

[she sai, and the whi-arm god her smi.] the to apo
spa the ear-sha lor: "pho, why sta we apa? it bef
not aft the res hav beg: tha wer the mor sha if wit
fig we sho go to oly to the bro-thr hou of
zeu. beg, for tho art you; it wer not mee for me, sin i was
bor fir and kno mor. fon god, how foo is thy hea! tho
rem not all the ill we twa alo of god end at ili,
whe by ord of zeu we cam to pro lao and ser him
thr a yea for pro rec, and he lai on us his com.
i rou the cit bui the tro a wal, wid and mos fai, tha
the cit mig be uns, and tho pho, did her sha
cro-hor kin amo the spu of woo man-fol ida. but whe the
joy sea wer acc the ter of hir, the red
lao rob us of all hir, and sen us off wit thr. he
thr tha he wou bin tog our fee and han and sel us
int far-off isl, and the ear of bot of us he vow to she off
wit the swo. so we wen hom wit ang hea, wro for the hir he
pro and gav us not. to his fol not tho sho fav, nor
ess wit us how the pro tro may be bro low and per
mis wit the chi and nob wiv."

the to him ans kin apo the far-dar: "sha of the ear,
of no sou min wou tho rep me if i sho fig aga the
for the sak of pit mor, who lik unt lea now liv in
glo lif, con the fru of the ear, and now aga pin int
dea. let us wit all spe cea fro com, and let the do bat
by the."

thu say he tur awa, for he fel sha to dea in blo wit his
fat's bro. but his sis upb him sor, the que of wil
bea, hun art, and spa a tau wor: "so the tho
fle, far-dar, has qui yie to pos the vic, and
giv him glo for nau! fon god, why bea tho an ine
bow in vai? let me not hea the aga in the hal of our sir boa
as bef amo the imm god tho wou sta up to fig aga
pos."

thu spa she, but far-dar apo ans her not. but ang the
nob spo of zeu [upb the arc que wit tau wor:]
"how now art tho fai, bol vix, to set thy aga me? har wer
it for the to mat my mig, bow-bea tho tho art, sin aga
wom zeu mad the a lio, and giv the to sla who of the tho
wil. tru it is bet on the mou to sla wil bea and dee
tha to fig ama wit mig tha tho. but if tho wil, try war,
tha tho may kno wel how far str am i, sin tho mat
thy mig wit min."

she sai, and wit her lef han cau bot the oth's han by the
wri, and wit her rig too the bow fro off her sho, and
the, smi, bea her on the ear as she tur thi way and
tha; and the swi arr fel out of her qui. and wee fro
bef her the god fle lik a dov tha fro bef a fal fli
to a hol roc, a cle--for she was not fat to be cau;--thu
art fle wee, and lef her bow and arr whe the lay. the
to let spa the gui, the sla of arg: "let, wit the wil i no
wis fig; a gri thi it is to com to blo wit wiv of
clo-gat zeu; but boa to thy hea's con amo the
imm god tha tho did van me by mig and mai."

thu sai he, and let gat up the cur bow and arr fal
hit and thi ami the whi of dus: so tak her dau's bow
she wen bac. and the mai cam to oly, to the bro-thr
hou of zeu, and wee set her on her fat's kne, whi rou
her her div ves qui: and her fat, kro' son, too her
to him and ask of her, lau gen: "who of the inh of
hea, dea chi, hat dea wit the thu [has, as tho tho
had bee doi som wro thi ope]?"

and to him in ans spa the fai-cro que of the ech cha:
"it was thy wif tha buf me, fat, the whi-arm her, fro
who are str and con com upo the imm."

thu tal the unt one ano. the pho apo ent int
sac ili, for he was tro for the wal of the wel-bui cit,
les the dan was it bef its hou upo tha day. but the oth
eve-liv god wen to oly, som ang and som gre
tri, and sat dow bes zeu who hid him in dar clo.

now ach was sti sla the tro, bot the and the
who-hoo hor. and as whe a smo goe up to the bro hea,
whe a cit bur, kin by the wra of god, and cau toi to
all, and gri to man, thu cau ach toi and gri to the
tro. and the old man pri sto on the sac tow, and was awa
of dre ach, how bef him the tro thr in rou, nor was
any suc fou of the. the wit a cry he wen dow fro the tow,
to rou the gal war alo the wal: "hol ope the gat in
you han unt the fol com to the cit in the rou, for clo is
ach cha the--now tro i the wil be dea dee. and whe
the are gat wit the wal and are tak bre, the aga shu
bac the gat-win fir bui; for i fea les tha mur man
spr in wit the wal."

thu spa he, and the ope the gat and thr bac the bol; and
the gat flu bac gav saf. the apo lea for to the fro
tha he mig war des fro the tro. the str for the
cit and the hig wal wer fle, par wit thi and dus-gri
fro the pla, and ach cha the veh wit his spe, for
str fre pos his hea con, and he thi to win
him ren. the wou the son of the ach hav tak hig-gat
tro, had not pho apo aro goo age, ant's son, a
pri man and str. in his hea he put goo cou, and him
sto by his sid tha he mig war off the gri vis of
dea, lea aga the oak, and he was shr in thi mis. so
whe age was awa of ach was of cit, he hal, and his
hea muc wav as he sto; and in tro he spa to his gre
hea: "ay me, if i fle bef mig ach, the whe the res
are dri ter-str, nat wil he ove me and sla me
as a cow. or wha if i lea the to be dri bef ach the
son of pel, and fle upo my fee fro the wal by ano way to the
ile pla, unt i com to the spu of ida, and hid me in the
und? so the at eve, hav bat in the riv and ref
me of swe, i mig ret to ili. nay, why dot my hea deb thu
wit me? les he mig be awa of me as i get me fro the cit for
the pla, and spe aft ove me wit swi fee; the wil it
no mor be pos to avo the vis of dea, for he is
exc mig abo all man. wha the if in fro of the cit i
go for to mee him? sur his fle too is pen by sha
bro, and the is but one lif wit, and men say he is mor,
how zeu the son of kro giv him ren."

thu say, he gat him to awa ach, and wit him his
sto hea was set to str and fig. as a leo goe for
fro a dee thi to aff a hun, nor is afr at hea, nor
fle whe she hea the bay of hou; for alb the man fir
smi her wit thr or thr, yet eve pie thr wit the spe
she cea not fro her cou unt she eit gra or be sla,
so nob ant's son, goo age, ref to fle til he sho
put ach to the pro, but hel bef him the cir of his shi,
and aim at him wit his spe, and cri alo: "dou tho hop
in thy hea, nob ach, on thi day to sac the cit of the pro
men of tro. fon man, the sha man wof thi yet be wro
bef it, for wit it we are man men and sta, who in fro of
our par dea and wiv and son kee ili saf; but tho sha her
mee dea, alb so red and bol a man of war."

he sai, and hur his sha spe wit wei han, and smo him on
the leg ben the kne, nor mis his mar, and the gre of
new-wro tin ran ter on him; but the bro bou bac fro
him it smo, nor pie him, for the god's gif dra it bac. the
the son of pel in his tur mad at god age, but apo
suf him not to win ren, but cau awa age, and shr him
in thi mis, and sen him in pea to be gon out of the war. the by
wil kep the son of pel awa fro the fol, for in com
sem of age him he sto bef the fee of ach, who
has to run upo him and cha him. and whi he cha him ove the
whe-bea pla, edg him tow the dee-edd riv
ska, as he ran but a lit in fro of him (for by wil apo
beg him tha he kep eve hop to ove him in the rac),
mea the oth tro in com rou cam gla unt the
fas, and the cit was fil wit the thr of the. nei had
the hea to awa one ano out the cit and wal, and to kno
who mig hav esc and who had per in the fig, but
imp the pou int the cit, who of the his fee and
kne mig sav.



boo xxi.

    how ach fou wit hec, and sle him, and bro
    his bod to the shi.

thu the thr the cit, sca lik faw, wer coo the
swe and dri and sla the thi, lea on the fai
bat, whi the ach dre nea the wal, set shi to
sho. but hec dea fat bou to abi in his pla, in fro
of ili and the ska gat. the to the son of pel spa pho
apo: "whe, son of pel, pur tho me wit swi fee,
thy bei mor and i a dea god? tho has not eve yet kno
me, tha i am a god, but str veh. tru tho reg not
thy tas amo the aff of the tro who tho aff, who
now are gat int the cit, whi tho hea wan hit. me tho
wil nev sla, for i am not sub unt dea."

the mig mov spa unt him ach fle of foo: "tho has
bau me, far-dar, mos mis of all the god, in tha tho
has tur me hit fro the wal: els sho ful man yet hav
bit the dus or eve wit ili had the com. now has tho rob
me of gre ren, and lig has sav the, bec tho had no
ven to fea the. ver i wou ave me on the, had i
but the pow."

thu say tow the cit he was gon in pri of hea, rus lik
som vic hor in a cha, tha run lig at ful spe
ove the pla; so swi pli ach his fee and kne. him the
old man pri fir beh as he spe acr the pla, bla as the
sta tha com for at har-tim, and pla see his ray shi
for ami the hos of sta in the dar of nig, the sta who
nam men cal ori's dog. bri of all is he, yet for an evi sig
is he set, and bri muc fev upo hap men. eve so on
ach' bre the bro gle as he ran. and the old man cri
alo and bea upo his hea wit his han, rai the on hig, and
wit a cry cal alo bes his dea son; for he bef the gat
was sta, all hot for bat wit ach. and the old man spa
pit unt him, str for his han: "hec, bel son, i
pra the awa not thi man alo wit non bes the, les tho
qui mee thy doo, sla by the son of pel, sin he is mig
far, a mer man. wou the god lov him eve as do i! the
qui wou dog and vul dev him on the fie--the wou
cru pai go fro my hea--the man who hat ber me of man val
son, sla the and sel the cap int far-off isl. ay eve
now twa of my chi, lyk and pol, i can see amo the
tro tha thr int the fas, son who lao bar me, a
pri amo wom. if the be yet ali ami the ene's hos, the
wil we ran the wit bro and gol, for the is sto wit, for
muc goo gav the old man fam alt to his chi. if the be dea,
the eve in the hou of had sha the be a sor to my sou and to
the mot, eve to us who gav the bir, but to the res of the
fol a bri sor, if but tho die not by ach' han. nay, com
wit the wal, my chi, tha tho pre the men and wom of tro,
nei giv gre tri to the son of pel, and be thy ber
of swe lif. hav com als on me, the hel one, who sti
can fee, ill-fat; who the fat, kro' son, wil bri to nau
by a gri doo in the pat of old age, hav see ful man ill,
his son per and his dau car awa cap, and his
cha lai was and inf chi hur to the gro in ter
war, and his son' wiv dra awa by the rui han of the
ach. mys the las of all at the str doo wil rav dog
tea, whe som one by str or thr of the sha bro hat ber
my lim of lif--eve the dog i rea in my hal abo my tab and
to gua my doo, whi the hav dru my blo, mad at hea
sha lie in the gat. a you man all bes, eve to be sla in
war, to be tor by the sha bro and lie on the fie; tho he be
dea yet is all hon to him, wha'er be see: but whe dog
def the hoa hea and hoa bea of an old man sla, thi is the
mos pit thi tha com upo hap men."

thu spa the old man, and gra his hoa hai, plu the fro
his hea, but he per not hec's sou. the his mot in her tur
wai tea, loo the fol of her rob, whi wit the oth
han she sho her bre; and thr her tea spa to him win
wor: "hec, my chi, hav reg unt thi bos and pit me, if
eve i gav the con of my bre. thi of it, dea chi, and
fro thi sid the wal dri bac the foe, nor sta in fro to mee
him. he is mer; if he sla the it wil not be on a bed tha i or
thy wif sha bew the, my own dea chi, but far awa fro us by
the shi of the arg wil swi dog dev the."

thu the wit wai spa to the dea son, bes him sor, yet
the per not hec's sou, but he sto awa ach as he
dre nig in gia mig. as a ser of the mou upo his den
awa a man, hav fed on evi poi, and fel wra hat ent
int him, and ter he gla as he coi him abo his den, so
hec wit cou unq gav not bac, lea his shi
shi aga a jut tow. the sor tro he spa to his gre
hea: "ay me, if i go wit the gat and wal, pol wil be
fir to bri rep aga me, sin he bad me lea the tro to
the cit dur thi rui nig, whe nob ach aro. but i
reg him not, yet sur it had bee bet far. and now tha i hav
und the hos by my wan, i am ash bef the men of tro
and wom of tra rob, les at any tim som wor man tha i
sha say: 'hec by tru his own mig und the hos.' so wil
the spe; the to me wou it be bet far to fac ach and
eit sla him and go hom, or mys die glo bef the cit.
or wha if i lay dow my bos shi and my sto hel, and lea my
spe aga the wal, and go of mys to mee nob ach and
pro him tha hel, and wit her all pos tha ale
bro in hol shi to tro, the beg of str, we wil giv
to the son of atr to tak awa, and the to div in hal
wit the ach all els tha thi cit hol: and if the i
obt fro the tro an oat of the eld tha the wil hid
not but div all in twa [wha wea the ple cit hol
wit]? but whe dot my hea deb thu? i mig com unt him
and he wou not pit or reg me at all, but pre sla me una
as it wer but a wom, if i put off my arm. no tim is it now to
dal wit him fro oak or fro roc, lik you wit mai, as
you and mai hol dal one wit ano. bet is it to joi
bat wit all spe: let us kno upo whi of us twa the oly
sha bes ren."

thu pon he as he sto, but nig on him cam ach, pee of
eny war of the wav hel, bra fro his rig sho
the pel ash, his ter spe; and all aro the bro on him
fla lik the gle of bla fir or of the sun as he ari. and
tre sei hec as he was awa of him, nor end he to abi
in his pla, but lef the gat beh him and fle in fea. and the
son of pel dar aft him, tru in his swi fee. as a fal
upo the mou, swi of win thi, swo fle aft a
tre dov; and she bef him fle, whi he wit shr scr
har at han sti dar at her, for his hea urg him to sei
her; so ach in hot has fle str for him, and hec fle
ben the tro' wal, and pli swi kne. the pas the
wat-pla and win-wav wil fig-tre spe eve, awa fro und the
wal, alo the wag-tra, and cam to the two fai-flo spr,
whe two fou ris tha fee dee-edd ska. the one
flo wit war wat, and smo goe up the aro as it wer
fro a bla fir, whi the oth eve in sum flo for lik
col hai or sno or ice tha wat for. and the bes the
spr are bro was-tro har by, fai tro of sto, whe
wiv and fai dau of the men of tro wer won to was bri
rai, in the old tim of pea, bef the son of the ach cam.
the the ran, he fly, he pur. val was the fli but far
mig he who fle pur him. for not for bea of sac or
for an oxh wer the str, suc as are pri for men's spe of
foo, but for the lif of hor-tam hec was the rac. and as
whe vic who-hoo hor run rap rou the
tur-poi, and som gre pri lie in sig, be it a tri or a
wom, in hon of a man tha is dea, so thr aro pri's cit
cir tho twa wit fly fee, and all the god wer gaz on
the. the amo the spa fir the fat of god and men: "ay me, a
man bel i see pur aro the wal. my hea is woe for hec,
who hat bur for me man thi of oxe ami the cre of man-fol
ida, and oth tim on the cit-hei; but now is goo ach
pur him wit swi fee rou pri's tow. com, giv you
cou, god, and dev whe we sha sav him fro dea or now at
las sla him, val tho he be, by the han of ach pel'
son."

the to him ans the bri-eye god ath: "o fat, lor of
the bri lig and the dar clo, wha is thi tho has sai? a
man tha is a mor, doo lon ago by fat, wou tho red bac
fro ill-bod dea? do it, but not all we oth god app."

and unt her in ans spa clo-gat zeu: "be of goo che,
tri-bor, dea chi: not in ful ear spe i, and i wou fai be
kin to the. do as see goo to thy min, and dra not bac."

thu say he rou ath, tha alr was set the, and fro the
cre of oly she dar dow.

but aft hec spe fle ach cha him veh. and as whe
on the mou a hou hun the faw of a dee, hav sta it
fro its cov, thr gle and gla, and if it cro to baf
him und a bus, yet sce it out the hou run con unt
he fin it; so hec baf not pel' fle-foo son. oft as he
set him to dar und the wel-bui wal ove aga the
dar gat, if hap fro abo the mig suc him wit dar,
so oft wou ach gai on him and tur him tow the pla, whi
him he spe eve on the cit-sid. and as in a dre one fai in
cha of a fly man, the one fai in his fli and the oth in
his cha--so fai ach to ove him in the rac, and hec to
esc. and thu wou hec hav avo the vis of dea, had
not thi tim bee utt the las whe apo cam nig to him, who
ner his str and his swi kne. for to the hos did nob
ach sig wit his hea, and for the to hur bit dar
aga hec, les any smi him sho gai ren, and he him
com sec. but whe the fou tim the had rea the spr, the
the fat hun his gol bal, and set the two lot of dre
dea, one of ach, one of hor-tam hec, and hel the by the
mid and poi. the hec's fat day san dow, and fel to the
hou of had, and pho apo lef him. but to pel' son cam the
bri-eye god ath, and sta nea spa to him win wor:
"now ver, glo ach dea to zeu, i hav hop tha we twa
sha car off gre glo to the shi for the ach, hav sla
hec, for all his thi for fig. no lon is it pos for him
to esc us, not eve tho far-dar apo sho tra sor,
gro bef the fat, aeg-bea zeu. but do tho now sta
and tak bre, and i wil go and per thi man to con the in
fig."

thu spa ath, and he obe, and was gla at hea, and sto
lea on his bro-poi ash-spe. and she lef him and cam to
nob hec, lik unt dei in sha and in str voi, and
sta nea spa to him win wor: "dea bro, ver fle
ach dot the vio, cha the rou pri's tow wit swi
fee: but com let us mak a sta and awa him on our def."

the ans her gre hec of the gla hel: "dei, ver
afo wer tho far dea of my bro, but now met i sha
hon the eve mor, in tha tho has dar for my sak, whe tho
saw me, to com for of the wal, whi the oth tar wit."

the to him aga spa the bri-eye god ath: "dea bro,
of a tru my fat and lad mot and my com aro bes me
muc, ent me in tur, to tar the, so gre do the all
tre bef him; but my hea wit was sor wit dis gri. and
now fig we wit str-set res and let the be no spa of
spe, tha we may kno whe ach is to sla us and car our
blo spo to the hol shi, or whe he mig be van by
thy spe."

thu say ath in her sub led him on. and whe the wer com
nig in ons on one ano, to ach fir spa gre hec of
the gla hel: "no lon, son of pel, wil i fly the, as bef
i thr ran rou the gre tow of pri, and end not to awa thy
ons. now my hea bid me sta up aga the; i wil eit sla
or be sla. but com hit and let us ple us by our god, for the
sha be bes wit and beh of cov: i wil ent the
in no out sor, if zeu gra me to out the, and if i tak
thy lif, but whe i hav des the of thy glo arm, o
ach, i wil giv bac thy dea bod to the ach, and do tho
the sam."

but unt him wit gri gaz spa ach fle of foo: "hec, tal
not to me, tho mad, of cov. as bet men and lio the is
no ple of fai, nor wol and she can be of one min, but ima
evi con aga eac oth, so is it imp for the and me
to be fri, nei sha be any ple bet us unt one or oth
sha hav fal and glu wit blo are, the stu god of war.
bet the of all thy sol: now beh it the to qui the
as a goo spe and val man of war. no lon is the way of
esc for the, but pal ath wil str sub the to my
spe; and now in one hou sha tho pay bac for all my sor for my
fri who tho has sla in the fur of thy spe."

he sai, and poi his far-sha spe and hur. and nob hec
wat the com the and avo it; for wit his eye on it he
cro, and the bro spe fle ove him, and fix its in the
ear; but pal ath cau it up and gav it bac to ach,
unk of hec she of hos. the hec spa unt the nob
son of pel: "tho has mis, so no wis yet, god ach, has
tho kno fro zeu the hou of my doo, tho tho tho it.
cun of ton art tho and a dec in spe, tha fea the i
mig for my val and str. not as i fle sha tho pla thy
spe in my rei, but dri it str thr my bre as i set on
the, if god hat giv the to do it. now in thy tur avo my spe of
bro. o tha tho mig tak it all int thy fle! the wou the
war be lig to the tro, if but tho wer dea, for tho art the
gre ban."

he sai, and poi his lon-sha spe and hur it, and smo the
mid of the shi of pel' son, and mis him not: but far fro the
shi the spe lea bac. and hec was wro tha his swi wea
had lef his han in vai, and he sto dow, for he had no sec
ash spe. and he cal wit a lou sho to dei of the whi
shi, and ask of him a lon spe, but he was no wis nig. the
hec kne he tru in his hea, and spa and sai: "ay me, now
ver the god hav sum me to dea. i dee the war
dei was by my sid, but he is wit the wal, and it was ath
who pla me fal. now the is evi dea com ver nig me, not
far off, nor is the way of esc. thi the was fro of old the
ple of zeu and of the far-dar son of zeu, who yet bef wer
fai to suc me: but now my fat hat fou me. at lea let me not
die wit a str or ing, but in som gre dee of arm
whe men yet to be bor sha hea."

thu say he dre his sha swo tha by his fla hun gre and
str, and gat him and swo lik a soa eag tha
dar to the pla thr the dar clo to sei a ten lam or
cro har. so hec swo, bra his sha swo. and
ach mad at him, for his hea was fil wit wil fie, and
bef his bre he mad a cov wit his fai gra shi, and
tos his bri fou-pla hel; and rou it wav fai gol
plu [tha hep had set thi abo the cre.]. as a sta goe
amo sta in the dar of nig, hes, fai of all sta set
in hea, so fla the for a lig fro the kee spe ach
poi in his rig han, dev mis aga nob hec, eye
his fai fle to fin the fit pla. now for the res of him his
fle was cov by the fai bro arm he str fro str
pat whe he sle him, but the was an ope whe the col
bon com fro the sho cla the nec, eve at the gul,
whe des of lif com qui; the, as he cam on, nob
ach dra at him wit his spe, and rig thr the ten nec
wen the poi. yet the bro-wei ash spe cla not the
win, so tha he mig yet spe wor of ans to his foe. and he
fel dow in the dus, and nob ach spa exu: "hec,
tho tho, whi tho wer spo pat, tha tho wou
be saf, and did rec not of me who was afa, tho foo. but awa
amo the hol shi his com, a mig far, eve i, was lef
beh, who now hav uns thy kne. the sha dog and bir tea
fou, but his fun sha the ach mak."

the wit fai bre spa unt him hec of the gla hel: "i
pra the by thy lif and kne and par lea me not for dog of the
ach to dev by the shi, but tak goo sto of bro and gol,
gif tha my fat and lad mot sha giv to the, and giv the
hom my bod bac aga, tha the tro and tro' wiv giv me my
due of fir aft my dea."

but unt him wit gri gaz spa ach fle of foo: "ent me
not, dog, by kne or par. wou tha my hea's des cou so bid
me mys to car and eat raw thy fle, for the evi tho has wro
me, as sur is the non tha sha kee the dog fro the, not eve
sho the bri ten or twe fol ran and her wei it out, and
pro eve mor, not eve wer pri dar' son to bid pay thy
wei in gol, not eve so sha thy lad mot lay the on a bed to
mou her son, but dog and bir sha dev the utt."

the dyi spa unt him hec of the gla hel: "ver i kno
the and beh the as tho art, nor was i des to per the;
tru thy hea is iro in thy bre. tak hee now les i dra upo
the wra of god, in the day whe par and pho apo sla the,
for all thy val, at the ska gat."

he end, and the sha of dea cam dow upo him, and his sou fle
for of his lim and was gon to the hou of had, wai her fat,
lea her vig and you. the to the dea man spa nob ach:
"die: for my dea, i wil acc it whe zeu and the oth
imm god are min to acc it."

he sai, and fro the cor dre for his bro spe, and set it
asi, and str the blo arm fro the sho. and oth son
of ach ran up aro, who gaz upo the sta and mar
goo of hec. nor did any sta by but wou him, and thu
wou man a man say loo tow his nei: "go to, of a tru
far eas to han is hec now tha whe he bur the shi wit
bla fir." thu wou man a man say, and wou him as he sto har
by. and whe fle nob ach had des him, he sto up amo
the ach and spa win wor: "fri, chi and cou of
the arg, sin the god hav vou us to van thi man who
hat don us mor evi tha all the res tog, com let us mak
tri in arm rou abo the cit, tha we may kno som of the
tro' pur, whe sin he hat fal the wil for the
cit, or whe the are min to abi, alb hec is no mor.
but whe dot my hea deb thu? the lie by the shi a dea
man unb, unb, pat; him wil i not for, whi i
abi amo the liv and my kne can sti. nay if eve in the hou
of had the dea for the dea, yet wil i eve the be min of
my dea com. but com, ye son of the ach, let us now, sin
our son of vic, go bac to the hol shi and tak wit us our
foe. gre glo hav we won; we hav sla the nob hec, unt who
the tro pra thr the cit, as he had bee a god."

he sai, and dev fou ent of nob hec. the ten of
bot fee beh he sli fro hee to ank-joi, and thr
the tho of ox-hid, and bou him to his cha, lea
his hea to tra. and whe he had mou the cha and lif
the the fam arm, he las his hor to spe, and the
not lot fle on. and dus ros aro him tha was dra, and his
dar hai flo loo on eit sid, and in the dus lay all his onc
fai hea, for now had zeu giv him ove to his foe to ent fou
in his own nat lan.

thu was his hea all gri wit dus. but his mot whe she beh
her son, tor her hai and cas far fro her her shi vei, and cri
alo wit an exc bit cry. and pit moa his fat, and
aro the the fol fel to cry and moa thr the tow.
mos lik it see as tho all bee ili wer bur utt in
fir. sca cou the fol kee bac the old man in his hot des to
get him for of the dar gat. for he bes the all, cas
him dow in the mir, and cal on eac man by his nam: "hol,
fri, and tho you lov me lea me to get me for of the cit
alo and go unt the shi of the ach. let me pra thi acc
hor-wor man, if hap he may fee sha bef his age-fel
and pit an old man. he als hat a fat suc as i am, pel, who
beg and rea him to be a ban of tro--and mos of all to me hat
he bro woe. so man son of min hat he sla in the flo--yet
for all my sor for the res i mou the all les tha thi one
alo, for who my sha gri wil bri me dow to the hou of
had--eve hec. wou tha he had die in my arm; the wou we
hav wep and wai our fil, his mot who bor him to her ill hap,
and i mys."

thu spa he wai, and all the men of the cit mad moa wit him.
and amo the wom of tro, hek led the wil lam: "my chi, ah,
woe is me! whe sho i liv in my pai, now tho art dea, who
nig and day wer my boa thr the cit, and ble to all, bot
men and wom of tro thr the tow, who hai the as a god, for
ver an exc glo to the wer tho in thy lif:--now dea and
fat hav ove the."

thu spa she wai. but hec's wif kne not as yet, for no tru
mes had com to tel her how her hus abo wit the gat,
but in an inn cha of the lof hou she was wea a dou
pur web, and bro the man flo. the she cal to
her goo-hai han thr the hou to set a gre tri on
the fir, tha hec mig hav war was whe he cam hom out of
the bat fon hea, and was una how, far fro all was,
bri-eye ath had sla him by the han of ach. but she hea
shr and gro fro the bat, and her lim ree, and the
shu fel fro her han to ear. the aga amo her goo-hai
mai she spa: "com two of ye thi way wit me tha i may see wha
dee are don. it was the voi of my hus's nob mot tha i
hea, and in my own bre my hea lea to my mou and my kne
are num ben me: sur som evi thi is at han aga the
chi of pri. wou tha suc wor mig nev rea my ear! yet
ter i dre les nob ach hav cut off bol hec fro the
cit by him and cha him to the pla and ere thi end his
per pri tha pos him, for nev wou he tar amo the
thr of men but ran out bef the far, yie pla to no man in
his har."

thu say she spe thr the cha lik one mad, wit bea
hea, and wit her wen her han. but whe she cam to the
bat and the thr of men, she sto sti upo the wal and
gaz, and beh him dra bef the cit:--swi hor dra him
rec tow the hol shi of the ach. the dar nig cam
on her eye and shr her, and she fel bac and gas for her
spi. fro off her hea she sho the bri att the,
fro and net and wov ban, and vei, the vei tha gol
aph gav her on the day whe hec of the gla hel led her
for of the hou of eet, hav giv bri-gif unt. and
aro her thr her hus's sis and his bro' wiv, who
hel her up amo the, dis eve to dea. but whe at las she
cam to her and her sou ret int her bre, the wai wit
dee sob she spa amo the wom of tro: "o hec, woe is me! to
one fat the wer we bot bor, tho in tro in the hou of pri, and
i in the und woo pla, in the hou of eet, who rea me
fro a lit one--ill-fat sir of cru-fat chi. ah, wou he
hav beg me not. now tho to the hou of had ben the sec
pla of the ear dep, and me in bit mou tho lea a
wid in thy hal: and thy son is but an inf chi--son of unh
par, the and me--nor sha tho pro him, hec, sin tho art
dea, nei he the. for eve if he esc the ach' wof war,
yet sha lab and sor cle unt him her, for oth men
sha sei his lan. the day of orp sun a chi fro his
fel, and his hea is bow dow eve, and his che are wet wit
tea. and in his nee the chi see his fat's fri, plu
thi one by clo and tha by coa, and one of the tha pit him
hol his cup a lit to his mou, and moi his lip, but his
pal he moi not. and som chi uno thr him fro
the fea wit blo and tau wor, 'out wit the! no fat of
thi is at our boa.' the wee to his wid mot sha he
ret, eve ast, who ers upo his fat's kne ate onl mar
and fat fle of she; and whe sle fel on him and he cea fro
chi pla, the in bed in his nur's arm he wou slu sof
nes, hav sat his hea wit goo thi; but now tha he
hat los his fat he wil suf man ill, ast--tha nam the
tro gav him, bec tho onl wet the def of the gat and
the lon wal. but now by the bea shi, far fro thy par,
sha coi wor dev the whe the dog hav had the fil, as
tho lie nak; yet in the hal lie rai of thi, del
and fai, wro by the han of wom. but ver all the wil i
con wit bur fir--to the no pro, sin tho wil nev lie
the, yet tha his be hon to the fro the men and the wom of
tro."

thu spa she wai, and the wom joi the moa.



boo xxi.

    of the fun of pat, and the fun gam.

thu the thr the cit mad moa: but the ach whe the wer
com to the shi and to the hel wer sca eac to his own
shi: onl the myr ach suf not to be sca, but
spa amo his com who del was in war: "fle-hor
myr, my tru com, let us not yet uny our who-hoo
ste fro the car, but wit hor and cha let us go nea and
mou pat, for suc is the hon of the dea. the whe we hav
our fil of gri wai, we wil uny the hor and all sup
her."

he sai, and the wit one acc mad lam, and ach led
the mou. so thr aro the dea the dra the wel-man
ste, moa; and the sti amo the des of wai.
bed wer the san wit tea, bed the war' arm; so gre
a lor of fea the sor for. and pel' son led the lou wai,
lay his man-sla han on his com's bre: "all hai,
pat, eve in the hou of had; for all tha i pro the
bef am i acc, see i hav dra hit hec to giv
raw unt dog to dev, and twe nob chi of the tro to
sla bef thy pyr, bec of min ang at thy sla."

he sai, and dev fou ent of nob hec, str him
pro in the dus bes the bie of men' son. and the res put
off eac his gli bro arm, and uny the hig-nei
hor, and sat the dow num bes the shi of fle-foo
aia, and he gav the amp fun fea. man sle oxe wer
str out, the thr cut wit ste, and man she and ble
goa, and man whi-tus boa wel gro in fat wer spi to
sin in the fla of hep; so on all sid rou the cor in
cup blo was flo.

but the fle-foo pri, the son of pel, was bro to nob
aga by the ach chi, har per him the, for his
hea was wro for his com. and whe the wer com to aga's
hut, for the bad cle-voi her set a gre tri on the
fir, if hap the mig per the son of pel to was fro him
the blo gor. but he den the ste, and swa mor an
oat: "nay, ver by zeu, who is hig and bes of god, not law
is it tha wat sho com nig my hea or eve i sha hav lai
pat on the fir, and hea a bar, and sha my hai, sin
nev aga sha sec gri thu rea my hea, whi i rem amo
the liv. yet now for the pre let us yie us to our mou
mea: but wit the mor, o kin of men aga, rou the fol to
bri woo and fur all tha it bes a dea man to hav whe he
goe ben the mis glo, to the end tha unt fir may bur
him qui fro sig, and the hos bet the to the wor."

thu spa he, and the lis rea to him and obe, and eag
mak rea eac his mea the sup, and no lac had the sou of
equ fea. but whe the had put off fro the the des of mea and
dri, the res wen dow eac man to his ten to tak his res, but the
son of pel upo the bea of the sou sea lay gro hea,
ami the hos of myr, in an ope pla, whe wav wer bre
on the sho. now whe sle too hol on him, eas the car of his
hea, dee sle tha fel abo him, (for sor tir wer his glo
kne wit ons upo hec tow win ili), the cam the unt
him the spi of hap pat, in all thi lik his liv sel,
in sta, and fai eye, and voi, and the rai of his bod was
the sam; and he sto abo ach' hea and spa to him: "tho
sle, and has for me, o ach. not in my lif was tho
eve unm of me, but in my dea. bur me wit all spe, tha i
pas the gat of had. far off the spi ban me, the pha of
men out, nor suf me to min wit the bey the riv, but
vai i wan alo the wid-gat dwe of had. now giv me, i
pra pit of the, thy han, for nev mor aga sha i com bac
fro had, whe ye hav giv me my due of fir. nev amo the liv
sha we sit apa fro our dea com and tak cou tog, but
me hat the har fat swa up whi was app me eve fro my
bir. yea and tho too thy, ach pee of god, ben the wal
of the nob tro art doo to die. yet one thi wil i say, and
cha the, if hap tho wil hav reg the. lay not my bon
apa fro thi, ach, but tog, eve as we wer nur in
you hou, whe men bro me yet a lit one fro opo to
you cou by rea of a gri man-sla, on the day whe i sle
amp' son, not wil it, in chi wra ove the dic. the
too me the kni pel int his hou and rea me kin and nam
me thy squ: so the let one cof hid our bon [a gol
cof, two han, thy lad mot's gif]."

the mad ans unt him ach fle of foo: "whe, o my
bro, has tho com hit, and cha me eve tha i sho
do? ver i wil acc all, and hav reg unt thy bid. but
sta mor nig me; for one mom let us thr our arm aro eac
oth, and tak our fil of dol lam."

he spa, and rea for wit his han, but cla him not; for
lik a vap the spi was gon ben the ear wit a fai shr.
and ach spr up mar, and smo his han tog, and
spa a wor of woe: "ay me, the rem the eve in the hou of
had a spi and pha of the dea, alb the lif be not any
the: for all nig lon hat the spi of hap pat sto
ove me, wai and mak moa, and cha me eve tha i
sho do, and won lik his liv sel it see."

thu sai he, and sti in all of the yea to mak lam; and
ros-fin mor sho for on the whi the sti mad moa aro
the pit cor. the lor aga spe mul and men fro all the
hut to fet woo; and a man of val wat the, eve
mer, squ of kin ido. and the wen for wit
woo-cut axe in the han and wel-wov rop, and bef the
wen the mul, and uph and dow and sid and acr the
wen. but whe the cam to the spu of man-fou ida,
str the set the lus to hew hig-fol oak wit the
lon-edg bro, and wit lou noi fel the tre. the spl
the asu the ach bou the beh the mul, and the tor up
the ear wit the fee as the mad for the pla thr the thi
und. and all the woo-cut bar log; for thu bad mer,
squ of kin ido. and on the sho the thr the dow in
lin, whe ach pur a mig tom for pat and for
him.

the whe the had lai dow all abo gre pil of woo, the sat
the dow all tog and abo. the str ach bad the
war myr gir on the arm and eac yok the hor to his
cha; and the aro and put the arm on, and mou the
cha, bot fig men and cha. in fro wer the men in
cha, and a clo of foo fol aft, num; and in the
mid his com bar pat. and the hea all the cor wit
the hai tha the cut off and thr the; and beh did goo
ach bea the hea, sor; for a nob com was he spe
for unt the rea of had.

and whe the cam to the pla whe ach had bid the, the set
dow the dea, and pil for him abu woo. the fle-foo nob
ach bet him of one thi mor: sta apa fro the pyr
he sho off a gol loc, the loc who gro he nur to off
unt the riv spe, and sor tro spa be, loo for
ove the win-dar sea: "spe, in oth wis vow my fat
pel unt the tha i ret thi to my nat lan sho she
my hai for the and off a hol hec, and fif ram sho
sac the abo thy spr, whe is the sac clo and alt
bur spi. so vow the old man, but tho has not acc him
his des. and now sin i ret not to my dea nat lan, unt the
her pat i may giv thi hai to tak awa."

thu say he set the hai in the han of his dea com, and
sti in all of the yea to mak lam. and so wou the lig
of the sun hav gon dow on the lam, had not ach sai
qui to aga as he sto bes him: "son of atr--for to thy
wor mos wil the hos of the ach hav reg--of lam
the may sat the to the ful. but now dis the fro the bur
and bid the mak rea the mea, and we to who the dea is dea
wil tak pai for the thi; yet let the chi tar nig unt
us."

the whe aga kin of men hea tha, he for dis the
hos amo the tri shi, but the nea to the dea tar the and
pil the woo, and mad a pyr a hun fee thi way and tha, and on
the pyr's top set the cor, wit ang at the hea. and man
lus she and sha cro-hor oxe the fla and mad rea
bef the pyr; and tak fro all of the the fat, gre hea
ach wra the cor the fro hea to foo, and hea the
fla bod rou. and he set the two-han jar of hon and
oil, lea the aga the bie; and fou str-nec hor he
thr swi on the pyr, and gro alo. nin hou-dog had the
dea chi: of the did ach sla twa and thr the on the pyr.
and twe val son of gre-hea tro he sle wit the
swo--for he dev mis in his hea and he set to the mer
mig of the fir, to fee the. the moa he alo, and cal on
his dea com by his nam: "all hai to the, o pat, eve in
the hou of had, for all tha i pro the bef am i now
acc. twe val son of gre-hea tro, beh
the all in com wit the the fir dev: but hec son of
pri wil i now giv to the fir to fee upo, but to dog."

thu spa he thr, but no dog mig dea wit hec, for day
and nig aph dau of zeu kep off the dog, and ano him
wit ros-swe oil amb tha ach mig not tea him whe he
dra him. and ove him pho apo bro a dar clo fro
hea to ear and cov all tha pla whe the dea man lay,
les mea the sun's str shr his fle rou abo upo his
sin and lim.

but the pyr of dea pat kin not. the fle-foo nob
ach had a fur tho: sta asi fro the pyr he pra
to the two win of nor and wes, and pro the fai off,
and pou lar lib fro a gol cup bes the to com,
tha the cor mig bla up spe in the fir, and the woo mak
has to be enk. the iri, whe she hea his pra, wen
swi wit the mes to the win. the wit the hou of the
gus wes win wer fea all tog at mea, whe iri spe
thi, and hal on the thr of sto. and whe the saw her
wit the eye, the spr up and cal to her eve one to sit by
him. but she ref to sit, and spa her wor: "no sea for me; i mus
go bac to the str of oce, to the eth' lan whe the
sac hec to the imm god, tha i too may fea at the
rit. but ach is pra the nor win and the lou wes to com,
and pro the fai off, tha ye may mak the pyr be kin
whe lie pat, for who all the ach are mak moa."

she hav thu sai dep, and the aro wit a mig sou,
rol the clo bef the. and swi the cam blo ove the
sea, and the wav ros ben the shr bla; and the cam to
dee-soi tro, and fel upo the pil, and lou roa the mig
fir. so all nig dra the the fla of the pyr tog, blo
shr; and all nig fle ach, hol a two-han cup, dre
win fro a gol bow, and pou it for and dre the ear,
cal upo the spi of hap pat. as a fat wai whe
he bur the bon of his son, new-mar, who dea is woe to his
hap par, so wai ach as he bur the bon of his
com, goi hea rou the bur pil, wit man moa.

but at the hou whe the mor sta goe for to her lig upo
the ear, the sta tha saf-man daw com aft, and
spr ove the sal sea, the gre the bur fai, and the fla
die dow. and the win wen bac aga to bet the hom ove the
thr mai, and it roa wit a vio swe. the the son of
pel tur awa fro the bur and lay dow wea, and swe
sle lea on him. but the who wer wit atr' son gat all
tog, and the noi and cla of the app aro him; and he
sat upr and spa a wor to the: "son of atr and ye oth
chi of the ach, fir que wit gle win all the bur
so far as the fir's str hat rea, and the let us gat up
the bon of pat, men' son, sin the wel, and eas are
the to dis, for he lay in the mid of the pyr, whi the res
apa at the edg bur-con, hor and men. and his bon let us
put wit a gol urn, and dou-fol fat, unt tha i mys be
hid in had. but no hug bar i bid you toi to rai--a see
one, no mor: the aft do ye ach bui it bro and hig,
who of you aft i am gon may be lef in the ben shi."

thu spa he, and the hea to the fle-foo son of pel.
fir que the wit gle win the bur so far as the fla
wen, and the ash had set dee: the wit lam the gat
up the whi bon of the gen com int a gol urn and
dou-fol fat, and pla the urn in the hut and cov it wit a
lin vei. and the mar the cir of the bar, and set the
fou the aro the pyr, and str hea the a
hea of ear. the whe the had hea up the bar the wer for
goi bac. but ach sta the fol in tha pla, and mad the
sit in wid ass, and fro his shi he bro for pri,
cal and tri, and hor and mul and str oxe, and
fai-gir wom, and gre iro.

fir for fle cha-rac he ord a nob pri, a wom
ski in fai han for the win to lea hom, and an ear
tri tha hel two-and-twe mea; the for the fir man; and
for the sec he ord a six-yea-old mar unb wit a mul foa
in her wom; and for the thi he gav a goo cal yet unt by
fir, hol fou mea, bri as whe fir mad; and for the
fou he ord two tal of gol; and for the fif a two-han
urn unt of fir, the he sto up and spa a wor amo the
arg: "son of atr and ye oth wel-gre ach, for the
cha-rac the pri lie awa the in the lis. if in som
oth's hon we ach wer now hol our gam, it wou be i who
sho win the fir pri and bea it to my hut; for ye kno how far my
pai of hor are fir in exc, for the are imm and
pos gav the to my fat pel, and he aga to me. but ver i
wil abi, i and my who-hoo hor, so glo a cha hav
the los, and one so kin, who on the man ful oft pou smo
oil, whe he had was the in cle wat. for him the sta and
mou, and the man are tra on the gro, and the sta the
wit sor at the hea. but ye oth thr the hos get ye to
you pla, who of the ach hat tru in his hor and
fir-joi car."

thu spa the son of pel, and the fle cha-rac wer
gat. fir of all aro up eum kin of men, adm' son, a
ski cha; and nex to him aro tyd' son, val dio,
and yok his hor of the bre of tro, whi on a tim he sei
fro ain, whe apo sav the lor. and aft him aro atr'
son, fai-hai hea-spr men, and yok him a swi pai
ait, aga's mar, and his own hor pod. her unt aga
did anc' son ech giv in fee, tha he mig esc fro
fol him to win ili and tak his ple at hom; for gre
wea had zeu giv him, and he dwe in sik of spa law:--
so men yok her, and she lon exc for the rac. and
fou, ant mad rea his fai-man hor, eve the nob son
of nes, hig-hea kin, who was the son of nel; and fle
hor bre at pyl dre his car. and his fat sta by his sid
spa cou him to his pro, tho him was wel adv:
"ant, ver alb tho art you, zeu and pos hav lov
the and tau the all ski wit hor; whe to tea the is
no gre nee, for tho wel kno how to whe rou the pos; yet
are thy hor ver slo in the rac: the met the wil be
sad wor for the. for the hor of the oth are fle, yet the men
kno not mor cun tha tho has. so com, dea son, sto thy min
wit all man of cun, tha the pri esc the not. by cun
is a woo far bet tha by for; by cun dot a hel on the
win-dar dee ste his swi shi buf by win; by cun hat
cha the bet of cha. for who tru in his hor
and car alo whe hee and wid at eit end, his hor
swe on the cou, and he kee the not in han. but who is of
cra min, tho he dri wor hor, he eve kee his eye upo
the pos tur clo by it, nei is una how far at fir to
for his hor by the ox-hid rei, but hol the saf in han and
wat the lea in the rac. now wil i tel the a cer sig,
and it sha not esc the. a fat's hei abo the gro
sta a wit stu, whe of oak or pin: it dec not in
the rai, and two whi sto on eit sid the are fix at the
joi of the tra, and all rou it is smo dri gro. whe
it be a mon of som man dea lon ago, or hav bee mad the goa
in the rac by anc men, thi now is the mar fix by fle-foo
ach. whe do tho dri clo and bea thy hor and cha
har the, and lea thy bod on the wel-kni car sli to the
lef, and cal upo the off-hor wit voi and las, and giv him rei
fro thy han. but let the nea hor hug the pos so tha the nav of
the wel-wro whe see to gra it--yet bew of tou the
sto, les tho wou the hor and bre the cha; so wou tha
be tri to the res and rep unt thy. but, dea son, be wis
and on thy gua; for if at the tur-pos tho dri pas the res,
the is non sha ove the fro beh or pas the by, not
tho he dra the goo ari in pur, the fle hor of
adr, of div des, or the hor of lao, bes of all bre
in thi lan."

thu spa nel nes and sat him dow aga in his pla, whe he
had tol his son the sum of eve mat.

and mer was the fif to mak rea his sle-coa ste. the
wen the up int the cha, and cas in the lot: and ach
sho the, and for lea the lot of ant nes's son, and the
nex lot had lor eum, and nex to him the son of atr,
spe-fam men, and nex to him dre mer his pla; the
las tyd, far the bes of all, dre his lot for his cha's
pla. the the sto sid by sid, and ach sho to the the
tur pos, far off in the smo pla; and bes it he pla an
ump, god pho, his fat's fol, tha he mig not the
run and tel the tru the.

the all tog lif the las abo the ste, and smo the
wit the rei, and cal on the eag wit wor: and the
for spe swi ove the pla, lea the shi beh; and
ben the bre sto the ris dus lik a clo or whi,
and the man wav on the blo win. and the cha ran
som on the bou ear, and oth whi wou bou int the
air. and the dri sto in the car, and the hea of eve man bea
in des of vic, and the cal eve man to his hor, tha fle
ami the dus acr the pla.

but whe the fle hor wer now run the las par of the cou,
bac tow the gre sea, the was man the pro of eac, and the
hor str in the rac; and pre to the fro rus the fle
mar of phe' gra, and nex to the dio' sta of the
bre of tro, not far apa, but har ani, for the see eve as
the wou mou eum' car, and wit the bre his bac was war
and his bro sho, for the ben the hea upo him as the fle
alo. thu wou tyd' son hav eit out the oth or mad
it a dea hea, had not pho apo bee wro wit him and smi
fro his han the shi las. the fro his eye ran tea of ang,
for tha he saw the mar sti at spe, eve swi tha bef,
whi his own hor wer thr out, as run wit spu. but
ath was not una of apo's gui aga tyd, and pre
spe aft the she of hos, and gav him bac the las, and put
spi int his ste. the in wra aft the son of adm was the
god gon, and bra his ste' yok, and the mar ran sid off
the cou, and the pol was twi to the gro. and eum was
hur out of the car bes the whe, and his elb and mou and
nos wer fla, and his for bru abo his eye; and his
eye fil wit tea and his lus voi was cho. the tyd
hel his who-hoo hor on one sid, dar far out bef the
res, for ath put spi int his ste and she glo on him.
now nex aft him cam gol-hai men atr' son. but
ant cal to his fat's hor: "go ye too in, str to you
fle pac. tru i now bid you str wit tho, the hor of
wis tyd, unt whi ath hat now giv spe, and she glo on
the cha. but ove atr' hor wit all has, and be
not out by the, les ait tha is but a mar pou sco on
you. why are ye out, bra ste? thu wil i tel you, and
ver it sha be bro to pas--ye wil fin no ten wit nes
she of hos, but str he wil sla you wit the edg of the
swo if thr hee we win but the wor pri. hav aft
the at you utm spe, and i for my par wil dev a pla to pas
the in the str par of the cou, and thi sha fai me not."

thu spa he, and the fea the voi of the pri ran swi
som lit whi; and pre did the goo war ant esp a
str pla in a sun par of the way. the was a rif in the ear,
whe tor wat gat and bra par of the tra awa, and
hol all the pla; the dra men, shu the enc of
the whe. but ant tur his who-hoo hor out of the
tra, and fol him a lit at one sid. and the son of atr too
ala and sho to ant: "ant, tho art dri
rec--hol in thy hor! the roa is str, soo tho may
pas me in a wid pla, les tho fou my cha and und us bot."

thu spa he, but ant dra eve fie tha bef, ply
his las, as tho he hea him not. as far as is the ran of a dis
swu fro the sho whe a you man hur it, mak tri of his
for, eve so far ran the on; the the mar of atr' son gav bac,
for he cea of him to urg the on, les the who-hoo ste
sho enc on the tra, and ove the wel-kni car, and the
dri fal in the dus in the zea for vic. so upb
ant spa gol-hai men: "ant, no mor man is
mor mal tha tho. go thy mad way, sin fal hav we ach
cal the wis. yet eve so tho sha not bea off the pri
unc to an oat."

thu say he cal alo to his hor: "hol ye not bac nor sta
sti wit sor at hea. the fee and kne wil gro wea bef
you, for the bot lac you."

thu spa he, and the fea the voi of the pri spe fas on,
and wer qui clo upo the oth.

now the arg sit in con wer gaz at the hor, and the
cam fly ami the dus ove the pla. and the fir awa of the
was ido, chi of the cre, for he was sit out the
con in the hig pla of vie, and whe he hea the voi of
one tha sho, tho afa off, he kne it; and he was awa of a
hor sho pla in the fro, a che all the res of him, but
in the for mar wit a whi sta rou lik the moo. and he
sto upr and spo amo the arg: "fri, chi, and
cou of the arg, is it i alo who see the hor, or do ye
als? a new pai see to me now to be in fro, and a new cha
app; the mar whi led in the out cou mus hav bee
thr out the in the pla. for i saw the tur fir the hit
pos, but now can see the now, tho my eye are gaz eve
alo the tro pla. did the rei esc the cha so tha he
cou not dri ari rou the pos and fai in the tur? the,
met, mus he hav bee cas for, and hav bro his cha, and
the mar mus hav lef the cou, in the wil of the hea. but
sta up ye too and loo, for mys i dis not cer, but the
fir man see to me one of ait rac, and he rul amo
arg, the son of hor-tam tyd, sta dio."

the fle aia oil' son reb him in uns sor: "ido,
why art tho a bra of old? as yet far off the hig-ste mar
are cou ove the wid pla. nei art tho so far the you
amo the arg, nor do thy eye loo so far the kee fro thy
hea, yet con bra tho. it bes the not to be a
bra, for the are her bet men. and the mar lea are the
tha led bef, eum' mar, and he sta and hol the rei
wit the car."

the wra in ans spa the chi of cre: "aia, mas of
rai, ill-cou, in all els art tho beh oth arg, for
thy min is unf. com the let us wag a tri or cal, and
mak aga atr' son our ump, whi mar are lea, tha
tho may pay and lea."

thu sai he, and str fle aia oil' son aro ang to
ans wit har wor: and str bet the twa wou hav gon
fur, had not ach him sto up and spa a wor: "no lon
ans eac oth wit har wor, aia and ido, ill wor, for
it bes not. sur ye are dis wit any oth who sho do
thu. sit ye in the con and kee you eye upo the hor; soo
the in zea for vic wil com hit, and the sha ye kno eac
of you the arg' hor, whi fol, and whi lea."

he sai, and the son of tyd cam dri up, and wit his las smo
now and aga fro the sho, and his hor wer ste hig as
the spe swi on the way. and spr of dus smo eve the
cha, and his cha ove wit gol and tin ran beh his
fle-foo ste, and sma tra was the of the whe-tir beh
in the fin dus, as the fle spe on. the he dre up in the mid
con, and muc swe pou fro the hor' hea and che to
the gro. and dio lea to ear fro the shi car, and lea
his las aga the yok. the sta sth tar not, but
pro too the pri, and gav to his pro com the wom to
lea and the ear tri to bea awa, and he loo the hor fro
the yok.

and nex aft him dra nel ant his hor, by cra, not
swi, hav pas by men; yet eve now men hel his
swi ste har ani. as far as a hor is fro the whe, whi
dra his mas, str wit the car ove the pla--his hin
tai-hai tou the tir, for the whe run har ani nor is muc
spa bet, as he spe far ove the pla--by so muc was
men beh hig-bor ant, how at fir he was a who
dis-cas beh, but qui he was cat ant up, for the
hig met of aga's mar, sle-coa ait, was ris in her.
and if yet fur bot had had to run he wou hav pas his riv
nor lef it eve a dea hea. but mer, sto squ of ido,
cam in a spe-thr beh fam men, for tar of all wer
his sle-coa hor, and slo he him to dri a cha in
the rac. las of the all cam adm' son, dra his goo car
dri his ste in fro. him whe fle-foo nob ach beh
he pit him, and he sto up and spa win wor amo the arg:
"las dri his who-hoo hor the bes man of the all. but com
let us giv him a pri, as is see, pri for the sec pla, but
the fir let the son of tyd tak."

thu spa he, and all app tha he bad. and he wou hav giv
him the mar, for the ach app, had not ant, son of
gre-hea nes; ris up and ans pel ach on beh
of his rig: "o ach, i sha be sor ang wit the if tho
acc thi wor, for tho art min to tak awa my pri, bec
tho thi of how his cha and fle ste mis, and
him wit, goo man tho he be. nay, it beh him to pra to
the imm, the wou he not hav com in las of all in the rac.
but if tho pit him and he be dea to thy hea, the is muc gol
in thy hut, bro is the and she, han-mai are the and
who-hoo hor. the tak tho and giv unt him aft eve
a ric pri, or eve now at onc, tha the ach may app the.
but the mar i wil not yie; for her let wha man wil ess the
bat at my han."

thu spa he, and fle-foo nob ach smi, ple wit
ant, for he was his dea com; and spa in ans to him
win wor: "ant, if tho wou hav me giv eum som
oth thi bes fro out my hou, tha als wil i do. i wil giv
unt him a bre-pla tha i too fro ast, of bro, whe
a cas of bri tin is ove, and of gre wor wil it be to
him." he sai, and bad his dea com aut bri it fro the
hut, and he wen and bro it. [the he pla it in eum' han,
and he rec it gla.]

but men als aro amo the, sor at hea, ang exc
aga ant; and the her set the sta in his han, and cal
for sil amo the arg; the spa amo the tha god man:
"ant, who onc wer wis, wha thi is thi tho has don? tho
has sha my ski and mad my hor fai, thr thi own in
fro tha are far wor. com now, ye chi and cou of the
arg, giv jud bet us bot, and fav nei: les som
one of the mai-cla ach say at any tim: 'by con
ant thr fal wor hat men gon off wit the mar, for
his hor wer far wor, how he hat adv in ran and pow.'
nay, i mys wil bri the iss abo, and i dee tha non oth of
the dan sha rep me, for the tri sha be jus. ant,
fos of zeu, com tho hit and as it is ord sta up
bef thy hor and cha and tak in thy han the pli las
whe tho dra ers, and tou thy hor swe by the
enf and sha of the ear tha not wil did tho hin
my cha by gui."

the ans him wis ant: "bea wit me now, for far you am
i tha tho, kin men, and tho art bef me and my bet. tho
kno how a you man's tra com abo, for his min is
has and his cou sha. so let thy hea suf me, and i wil
of mys giv to the the mar i hav tak. yea, if tho sho ask
som oth gre thi fro my hou, i wer fai to giv it the
str, rat tha fal for eve fro my pla in thy hea, o
fos of zeu, and bec a sin aga the god."

thu spa gre-hea nes's son, and bro the mar and put her
in the han of men. and his hea was gla as whe the dew
com upo the ear of rip har-cor, wha tim the fie are
bri. so gla was thy sou, men, wit thy hea. and he
spa unt ant and utt win wor: "ant, now wil i
of mys put awa min ang aga the, sin no wis for wer
tho fli or lig-min, how now thy rea was ove of
you. ano tim be lot to out bet men. not eas
sho ano of the ach hav per me, but tho has suf
and toi gre, and thy bra fat and bro, for my sak:
the wil i hea to thy pra, and wil eve giv unt the the
mar, tho she is min, tha the als may kno tha my hea was
nev ove or imp."

he sai, and gav the mar to noe ant' com to lea awa,
and the too the shi cal. and mer too up the two tal
of gol in the fou pla, as he had com in. so the fif pri was
lef unc, a two-han cup; to nes gav ach thi,
bea it to him thr the con of arg, and sto by him and
sai: "lo now for the too, old man, be thi a tre, a mem of
pat' bur; for no mor sha tho beh him amo the arg.
now giv i the thi pri unw, for not in box sha tho str,
nei wre, nor ent on the jav mat, nor rac wit thy fee;
for gri old age alr wei on the."

thu say he pla it in his han, and nes rec it gla, and
spa unt him win wor: "ay, tru all thi, my son, tho has
mee sai; for no lon are my lim, fri, fir, nor my fee, nor
do my arm at all swi lig fro my sho eit sid. wou
tha my you wer suc and my for so fir as whe the epe wer
bur lor ama at bup, and his son hel the kin's
fun gam. the was no man fou lik me, nei of the epe nor
of the pyl the or the gre-hea ait. in box i
ove kly, son of eno, and in wre ank of ple,
who sto up aga me, and in the foo-rac i out iph, a rig
goo man, and wit the spe out phy and pol; onl in the
cha-rac the two son of akt bea me [by cro the hor in
fro of me, jea for vic, bec the chi pri wer lef at
hom.] now the wer twi--one eve hel the rei, the rei he eve
hel, the oth cal on the hor wit the las. thu was i onc, but
now let you men joi in suc fea; i mus ben to gri age, but
the was i of mar amo her. but com hol fun for thy com
too wit wit gam. thi gif do i acc wit gla, and my hea
rej tha tho rem eve my fri to the--(nor for
i the)--and the hon whe it is mee tha i be hon amo
the ach. and may the god for thi gra the due gra."

thu spa he, and pel was gon dow the ful con of
ach, whe he had hea to all the tha of nel' son. the
he ord pri of the vio box mat; a stu mul he led
for and tet ami the ass, a six-yea mul unb, har
of all to bre; and for the los set a two-han cup. the he sto
up and spa a wor amo the arg: "son of atr and ye oth
wel-gre ach, for the rew we sum two men of the bes
to lif up the han to box ama. he to who apo sha gra
end to the end, and all the ach ack it, let him tak
the stu mul and ret wit her to his hut; and the los sha tak
wit him the two-han-cup."

thu spa he, and for aro a man gre and val and ski
in box, epe son of pan, and lai his han on the stu mul
and sai alo: "let one com nig to bea off the two-han cup; the
mul i say non oth of the ach sha tak for vic wit his
fis, for i cla to be the bes man her. suf it not tha i fal
sho of you in bat? not pos is it tha in all art a man be
ski. thu pro i, and it sha be acc: i wil utt
bru min adv's fle and bre his bon, so let his fri
abi tog her to bea him for whe van by my han."

thu spa he, and the all kep dee sil. and alo aro aga
him eur, a god man, son of kin mek the son of tal,
mek, who cam on a tim to the whe oed had fal, to his
bur, and the he ove all the son of kad. thu tyd
fam wit the spe mad rea eur for the fig, che him
wit spe, and gre des for him vic. and fir he cas
abo him a gir, and nex gav him wel-cut tho of the hid of an
ox of the fie. and the two box bei gir wen int the mid of
the rin, and bot lif up the sta han fel to, and the
han joi bat gri. the was the ter gri of
tee, and swe flo fro all the lim. and nob epe cam on,
and as the oth spi for an ope, smo him on the che, nor cou
he muc mor sta, for his lim fai str und him. and as
whe ben the nor win's rip a fis lea on a tan-cov
bea, and the the bla wav hid it, so lea up eur at tha
blo. but gre-hea epe too him in his han and set him
upr, and his dea com sto aro him, and led him thr the
rin wit tra fee, spi out clo blo, dro his hea
awr, and the set him dow in his swo amo the and the wen
for and fet the two-han cup.

the pel' son ord str the pri for a thi con,
off the to the dan, for the gri wre mat: for the
win a gre tri for sta on the fir, pri by the ach
amo the at twe oxe' wor; and for the los he bro a wom
int the mid, ski in man wor, and the pri her at fou
oxe. and he sto up and spa a wor amo the arg: "ris, ye who
wil ess thi mat."

thu sai he, and the aro gre aia son of tel, and ody of
man wil sto up, the cra-min. and the twa bei gir wen
int the mid of the rin, and cla eac the oth in his arm wit
sta han, lik gab raf of a lof hou whi som fam
cra joi, tha he may baf the win's for. and the bac
cre, gri fir und the vig han, and swe ran dow in
str, and fre wea alo the rib and sho spr up,
red wit blo, whi eve the str ama for vic, to win the
wro tri. nei cou ody tri aia and bea him to the
gro, nor aia him, for ody' str wit him. but whe the
beg to irk the wel-gre ach, the sai to ody gre
aia, tel's son: "hea-spr son of lae, ody of man
wil, or lif tho me, or i wil the, and the iss sha be wit
zeu."

hav thu sai he lif him, but ody was not unm of his
cra. he smo def fro beh the hol of aia' kne, and loo
his lim, and thr him dow bac, and ody fel upo his
che, and the fol gaz and mar. the in his tur muc-end
nob ody tri to lif, and mov him a lit fro the gro,
but lif him not, so he cro his kne wit the oth's, and bot
fel on the gro nig to eac oth, and wer soi wit dus, and
now sta up aga a thi tim wou the hav wre, had not
ach him ari and hel the bac: "no lon pre eac the
oth, nor wea you out wit pai. vic is wit bot; tak equ
pri and dep, tha oth ach may con."

thu spa he, and the wer fai to hea and to obe, and wip the
dus fro the and put the dou on.

the str the son of pel set for oth pri for fle
of foo; a mix-bow of sil, cha; six mea it hel, and in
bea it was far the bes in all the ear, for art of sid
wro it cun, and men of the pho bro it ove the
mis sea, and lan it in har, and gav it a gif to tho; and
eun son of jas gav it to the her pat a ran for lyk
pri's son. now thi cup did ach set for as a pri in hon of
his fri, for who sho be fle in spe of foo. for the
sec he set an ox gre and ver fat, and for the las pri hal a
tal of gol. and he sto up and spa a wor amo the arg:
"ris, ye who wil ess thi mat."

thu spa he, and str aro fle aia oil' son, and
ody of man wil, and aft the nes's son ant, for he
was bes of all the you in the foo-rac. the the sto sid by
sid, and ach sho to the the goa. rig eag was the run
fro the sta, but oil' son for sho to the fro, and clo
beh him cam nob ody, as clo as is a wea-rod to a
fai-gir wom's bre whe she pul it def wit her han,
dra the spo alo the war, and hol the rod nig her bre--
so clo ran ody beh aia and tro in his foo or eve the
dus had set the, and on his hea fel the bre of nob
ody as he ran eve lig on, and all the ach app his
str for the vic and cal on him as he lab har. but whe
the wer run the las par of the cou, for ody pra
in his sou to bri-eye ath: "hea, god, com tho a goo
hel of my fee."

thu pra he, and pal ath hea to him, and mad his lim
fee lig, bot fee and han. but whe the, wer now nig dar on
the pri, the aia sli as he ran, for ath mar his rac,
whe fil was str fro the sla of lou-bel oxe tha
fle ach sle in hon of pat: and aia' mou and nos
wer fil wit tha fil of oxe. so muc-end nob ody, as
he cam in fir, too up the mix-bow, and fam aia too the ox.
and he sto hol in his han the hor of the ox of the fie,
spu awa the fil, and spa amo the arg: "out on it, it
was the god who mar my run, she who fro of old lik a mot
sta by ody' sid and hel him."

so spa he, but the all lau ple to beh him. the
ant smi bor off the las pri, and spa his wor amo the
arg: "fri, ye wil all bea me wit whe i say tha eve
her als the imm fav eld men. for aia is a lit old
tha i, but ody of an ear gen and ear rac of men. a
gre old age is his, the say, and har wer it for any ach to
riv him in spe, sav onl ach."

thu spa he, and gav hon to the fle son of pel. and ach
ans him and sai: "ant, not unh sha thy pra be
giv; a hal-tal of gol i wil giv the ove and abo." he sai,
and set it in his han, and ant rec it gla.

the pel' son bro and set in the rin a far-sha spe and a
cha tha kne not the fir, an ox's wor, emb wit flo;
and men tha wer cas of the jav aro up. the ros atr'
son wid-rul aga, and mer, ido' bra squ. and
swi-foo nob ach spa amo the: "son of atr, for tha
we kno how far tho exc all, and how far the fir tho art in
the mig of thy thr, tak tho thi pri wit the to the hol
shi, and to the her mer let us giv the spe, if tho art
wil in thy hea: thu i at lea adv."

thu spa he, nor dis him aga kin of men. so to mer
he gav the spe of bro, but to the her tal the her gav
the goo pri.



boo xxi.

    how the bod of hec was ran, and of his fun.

the the ass was bro up, and the tri wer sca to bet
the eac to the own swi shi. the res bet the of sup
and swe sle to hav joy the; but ach wep, rem his
dea com, nor did sle tha con all tak hol on him, but he
kep tur him to thi sid and to tha, yea for pat'
man and exc val, and all the toi he ach wit him and
the woe he bar, cle the bat of men and the gri wav. as
he tho the be she big tea, now lyi on his sid, now on his
bac, now on his fac; and the ano he wou ari upo his fee and
roa wil bes the bea of the sal sea. nor wou he be una of
the daw whe she aro ove the sea and sho. but whe he had yok
the swi ste to his car he wou bin hec beh his cha to
dra him wit; and hav thr dra him rou the bar of the
dea son of men he res aga in his hut, and lef hec lyi
str on his fac in the dus. but apo kep awa all def
fro his fle, for he had pit on him eve in dea, and cov him
all wit his gol aeg, tha ach mig not tea him whe he
dra him.

thu ach in his ang ent nob hec sha; but the
ble god whe the beh him pit him, and urg the
cle-sig sla of arg to ste the cor awa. so to all the
oth see it goo, yet not to her or pos or the bri-eye
mai, but the con as whe at the beg sac ili bec
hat to the, and pri and his peo, by rea of the sin of
ale in tha he con tho god whe the cam to his
ste, and pre her who bro him dea lus. but whe
the twe mor fro tha day aro, the spa amo the imm
pho apo: "har of hea are ye, o god, and cru hat hec
nev bur for you thi-bon of unb bul and goa? now hav
ye not tak hea to res eve his cor for his wif to loo upo
and his mot and his chi and his fat pri and his peo, who
spe wou bur him in the fir and mak his fun. but fel
ach, o god, ye are fai to abe, who min is now jus nor the
pur in his bre to be tur awa, but he is cru min as a
lio tha in gre str and at the bid of his pro hea goe
for aga men's flo to mak his mea; eve thu ach hat
cas out pit, nei hat he sha, tha dot bot har and pro men
gre. it mus be tha man a man los eve som dea one tha was
thi, a bro of the sam wom bor or per a son; yet bri
he his wai and lam to an end, for an end sou hav the
fat giv unt men. but ach aft ber nob hec of his
lif bin him beh his hor and dra him aro the tom of
his dea com: not, ver, is tha mor hon or bet for
him. let him tak hee les we wax wro wit him, goo man tho he
be, for in his fur he is ent sha the sen cla."

the in ang spa unt him whi-arm her: "eve thu mig tho
spe, o lor of the sil bow, if ye are to giv equ hon to
ach and to hec. hec is but a mor and was suc at a
wom's bre, but ach is chi of a god who i mys bre up
and rea and gav to a man to be his wif, eve to pel who was
dea of all men to the imm' hea. and all ye god cam to her
bri, and tho amo the wer fea wit thy lyr, o lov of ill
com, fai eve."

the to her in ans spa zeu who gat the clo: "her, be not
wro utt wit the god: for the men's hon is not to be the
sam, yet hec als was dea to the god of all mor tha are in
ili. so was he to me at lea, for now fai he in the gif i
lov. nev did my alt lac see fea, dri-off and the
ste of sac, eve the hon tha fal to our due. but ver
we wil say no mor of ste awa bra hec, for it can be
hid fro ach, for his mot abi eve nig to him nig and
day. but i wer fai tha som one of the god wou cal the to com
nea to me, tha i may spe unt her a wis wor, so tha ach may
tak gif fro pri and giv hec bac." thu spa he, and
air-foo iri spe for upo the err and bet sam and
roc imb lea int the bla sea, and the wat clo abo her
wit a noi. and she spe to the bot lik a wei of lea tha
mou on hor of a fie-ox goe dow bea dea to rav
fis. and she fou the in a hol cav; abo her sat gat
oth god of the sea and she in the mid was wai for the
fat of her nob son who mus per in dee-soi tro, far fro his
nat lan. and sta nea, fle-foo iri spa to her: "ris,
the; zeu of imm cou cal the."

and to her mad ans the the sil-foo god: "whe
bid me tha mig god? i shr fro min amo the imm,
for i hav cou woe at hea. yet go i, nor sha his wor be in
vai, wha he sai."

thu hav sai the nob god too to her a dar-hue rob, no
bla rai was the fou tha tha. the she wen for, and
win-foo swi iri led the way bef her, and aro the the sur
of the sea was sun. and whe the had com for upo the sho
the spe up to hea, and fou the far-see son of kro, and
rou him sat gat all the oth ble god tha are for eve.
the she sat dow bes fat zeu, and ath gav her pla. and
her set a fai gol cup in her han and che her wit wor, and
the dra, and gav bac the cup. the beg spe to the the
fat of god and men: "tho art com to oly, div the, in thy
sor, wit vio gri at thy hea; i kno it of mys.
nev wil i tel the whe i cal the hit. nin day
hat dis ari amo the imm con the cor of hec
and ach was of cit. fai are the to sen cle-sig
her to ste the bod awa, but now hea wha glo i acc her
to ach, tha i may kee thr tim to com thy hon and goo
wil. go wit all spe to the hos and bea to thy son my bid. say
to him tha the god are dis at him, and tha i abo all
imm am wro, bec wit fur hea be hol hec at the
bea shi and hat not giv him bac, if hap he may fea me and
giv hec bac. but i wil sen iri to gre-hea pri to bid him
go to the shi of the ach to ran his dea son, and car gif
to ach tha may gla his hea."

thu spa he, and the the sil-foo god was not dis
to his wor, and spe dar upo her way dow fro the pea of
oly. and she cam to her son's hut; the fou she him mak
gri moa, and his dea com rou wer swi mak rea and
fur the ear mea, and a she gre and fle was bei
sac in the hut. the his lad-mot sat her dow clo bes
him, and str him wit her han and spa to him by his nam: "my
chi, how lon wit lam and woe wil tho dev thi hea,
tak tho of nei foo nor res? goo wer eve a wom's
emb, for not lon sha tho be lef ali to me; alr dea and
for fat are sta nig the. but hea for unt me, for
i am the mes of zeu to the. he sai tha the god are
dis at the, and tha him abo all imm is wro,
bec wit fur hea tho hol hec at the bea shi and
has not giv him bac. but com res him, and tak ran for the
dea."

the to her in ans spa fle-foo ach: "so be it: who
bri ran let him tak bac the dea, if ver wit hea's
int the oly bid it him."

so the in the ass of the shi, mot and son, spa to eac
oth man win wor. but the son of kro thu bad iri go to hol
ili: "go for, fle iri, lea the abo of oly and bea my
mes wit ili to gre-hea pri tha he go to the shi of
the ach and ran his dea son and car gif to ach tha
may gla his hea; let him go alo, and no oth man of the tro
go wit him. onl let som eld her att on him to gui the mul
and smo-whe wag and car bac to the cit the dea man who
nob ach sle. let not dea be in his tho nor any fea; suc
gui wil we giv unt him, eve the sly of arg who sha lea him
unt his lea bri him to ach. and whe he sha hav led him
wit the hut, nei sha ach him sla him nor suf any
oth her, for not sen is he or unf or wic, but
wit all cou he wil spa a sup man."

thu spa he, and air-foo iri spe for upo the err. and she
cam to the hou of pri, and fou the cry and moa. his
chi sit aro the fat wit the cou wer bed
the rai wit the tea, and the old man in the mid was clo
wra all ove in his clo; and on his hea and nec was muc mir
tha he had gat in his han as he gro upo the ear. and
his dau and his son' wiv wer wai thr the hou,
bet the of all tho val men who had los the liv at the
han of the arg and wer lyi low. and the mes of zeu sto
bes pri and spa sof unt him, and tre cam upo his
lim: "be of goo che in thy hea, o pri son of dar, and be
not dis for any, for no evi com i hit to for to
the, but wit goo wil. i am the mes of zeu to the, who,
tho he be afa off, hat gre car and pit for the. the oly
bid the ran nob hec and car gif to ach tha may
gla his hea: go tho alo, let non oth of the tro go wit
the. onl let som eld her att on the to gui the mul and
the smo-whe wag to car bac to the cit the dea man who
nob ach sle. let not dea be in thy tho, nor any fea; suc
gui sha go wit the, eve the sla of arg, who sha lea the
unt his lea bri the to ach. and whe he sha hav led
the int the hut, nei sha ach him sla the, nor suf
any oth her, for not sen is he or unf or wic, but
wit all cou he wil spa a sup man."

thu hav spo fle iri dep fro him; and he bad his son
mak rea the smo-whe mul wag, and bin the wic car
the. and him he wen dow to his fra cha, of ced
woo, hig-roo, tha hel ful man jew: and to hek his wif he
cal and spa: "lad, fro zeu hat an oly mes com to
me, tha i go to the shi of the ach and ran my dea son, and
car gif to ach tha may gla his hea. com tel me how
see it to thy min, for of mys at lea my des and hea bid
me mig to go thi to the shi and ent the wid cam of the
ach."

thu spa he, but his wif lam alo and mad ans to him: "woe
is me, whi is gon thy min whe afo tho wer fam amo
str men and amo the tho rul? how art tho fai to go alo
to the shi of the ach, to mee the eye of the man who hat sla
ful man of thy bra son? of iro ver is thy hea. for if he
lig on the and beh the wit his eye, a sav and ill-tru
man is thi, and he wil not pit the, nei rev the at all.
nay, now let us sit in the hal and mak lam afa off. eve thu did
for fat ers spi for hec wit her thr at his beg whe
i bar him, eve i, tha he sho glu fle-foo dog, far fro his
par, in the dwe of a vio man who inm vit i wer
fai to fas and fee upo; the wou his dee aga my son be
pai aga to him, for not pla the cow was he sla of him, but
cha the men and dee-bos wom of tro, nei bet he
him of she or of fli."

the to her in ans spa the old man god pri: "sta me not, for
i am fai to go, nei be thy a bir of ill bod in my hal,
for tho wil not cha my min. wer it som oth and a chi of
ear tha bad me thi, whe som see or of the pri tha div
fro sac, the wou we dec it fal and hav no par
the; but now, sin i hav hea the voi of the god mys and
loo upo her fac, i wil go for, and her wor sha not be voi.
and if it be my fat to die by the shi of the mai-cla ach, so
wou i hav it; let ach sla me wit all spe, whe onc i hav
tak in my arm my son, and hav sat my des wit moa."

he spa, and ope fai lid of che whe he cho twe ver
goo wom's rob and twe clo of sin fol and of cov a
lik num and of fai she, and of dou the. and he
wei and bro for tal of gol ten in all, and two shi
tri and fou cal, and a gob exc fai tha men of
thr had giv him whe he wen thi on an emb, a cha of
gre pri, yet not tha eve did the old man gru fro his hal,
for he was exc fai at hea to ran his dea son. the he dra
out all the tro fro the col, chi the wit wor of
reb: "beg, ye tha dis and do me sha! hav ye no mou
of you own at hom tha ye com to vex me her? thi ye it a sma
thi tha zeu kro' son hat giv me thi sor, to los him tha
was the bes man of my son? nay, but ye too sha fee it, for eas
far sha ye be to the ach to sla now he is dea. but for me, ere
i beh wit min eye the cit sac and was, let me go dow int
the hou of had."

he sai, and wit his sta cha for the men, and the wen for
bef the old man in his has. the he cal unt his son, chi
hel and par and nob aga and pam and ant, and
pol of the lou war-cry, and dei and hip and pro
dio; nin wer the who the old man cal and bad unt him: "has
ye, ill son, my sha; wou tha ye all in hec's ste had bee
sla at the swi shi! woe is me all unb, sin i beg son the
bes men in wid tro-lan, but non of the is lef for me to cla,
nei god mes, nor tro wit his cha of war, nor hec
who was a god amo men, nei see he as the son of a mor man
but of a god:--all the hat are sla, and her are my sha all
lef to me, fal-ton, lig-hee, the her of dan, plu
of you own peo's she and kid. wil ye not mak me rea a wai
wit all spe, and lay all the the, tha we get us for on our
way?"

thu spa he, and the fea the fat's voi bro for the
smo-run mul cha, fai and new, and bou the bod the on
the fra; and fro its peg the too dow the mul yok, a box yok
wit kno wel fit wit gui-rin; and the bro for the
yok-ban of nin cub wit the yok. the yok the set fir on the
pol pol on the res at the end the, and sli the rin ove
the upr pin, whi wit thr tur of the ban the las to the
kno, and the bel it clo rou the pol and tur the ton
the. the the bro fro the cha and hea on the
pol wai the cou ran of hec's hea, and yok
str-hoo har mul, whi on a tim the mys gav to pri,
a spl gif. but to pri's car the yok the hor tha the old
man kep for his use and rea at the pol cri.

thu in the hig pal wer pri and the her let yok the
car, wit wis tho at the hea, whe nig cam hek sor at
hea, wit hon-swe win in her rig han in a gol cup tha the
mig mak lib ere the wen. and she sto bef the hor and
spa a wor to pri by nam: "lo now mak lib to fat zeu and
pra tha tho may com bac hom fro amo the ene, sin thy
hea spe the for to the shi, tho fai wer i tho wen
not. and nex pra to kro of the sto-clo, the god of ida, tha
beh all tro-lan ben, and ask of him a bir of ome, eve the
swi mes tha is dea of all bir to him and of mig
str, to app upo thy rig, tha see the sig wit thi own
eye tho may go in tru the unt the shi of the fle-hor
dan. but if far-see zeu sha not gra unt the his mes,
i at lea sha not bid the on to go amo the shi of the ach
how fai soe tho may be."

the ans and spa unt her god pri: "lad, i wil not
dis thi hes of thi, for goo it is to lif up han to zeu,
if hap he wil hav pit."

thu spa the old man, and bad a hou-dam tha ser him pou pur
wat on his han; and she cam nea to ser him wit wat in a ewe
to was wit. and whe he had was his han he too a gob fro
his wif: the he sto in the mid of the cou and pra and pou
for win as he loo up to hea, and spa a wor alo: "fat
zeu tha bea swa fro ida, mos glo and mos gre, gra
tha i fin wel and pit und ach' roo, and sen a bir of
ome, eve the swi mes tha is dea of all bir to the and
of mig str, to app upo the rig, tha see thi sig
wit min eye i may go tru the unt the shi of the
fle-hor dan."

thu spa he pra, and zeu of wis cou hea unt him, and
str sen for an eag, sur ome of win bir, the dus
hun cal of men the bla eag. wid as the doo, wel loc,
fit clo, of som ric man's hig-roo hal, so wid wer his
win eit way; and he app to the spe on the rig han
abo the cit. and whe the saw the eag the rej and all the
hea wer gla wit the bre.

the the old man mad has to go up int his car, and dra for fro
the doo and the ech por. in fro the mul dre the
fou-whe wai, and wis ida dra the; beh cam the hor
whi the old man urg wit the las at spe alo the cit: and his
fri all fol lam lou as tho he wer far to his
dea. and whe the wer com dow fro the cit and wer now on the
pla, the wen bac aga to ili his son and mar kin. but the
two com for upo the pla wer not unb of far-see zeu.
but he loo upo the old man and had com on him, and
str spa unt her his dea son: "her, sin unt the
esp is it dea to com men, and tho hea who tho
wil, go for and so gui pri to the hol shi of the ach
tha no man beh or be awa of him, amo all the dan' hos,
unt he com to the son of pel."

thu spa he, and the mes, the sla of arg, was not
dis unt his wor. str ben his fee he bou on his
fai san, gol, div, tha bar him ove wet sea and ove the
bou lan wit the bre of the win. and he too up his wan
whe he ent the eye of suc men as he wil, and oth he
lik wak out of sle: thi did the str sla of arg tak
in his han, and fle. and qui cam he to tro-lan and the
hel, and wen on his way in sem as a you man tha is
a pri, wit the new dow on his chi, as whe the you of men is
the com.

now the oth, whe the had dri bey the gre bar of ili,
hal the mul and hor at the riv to dri; for dar was com
dow ove the ear. the the her beh her fro har by, and
mar him, and spa and sai to pri: "con, son of dar;
thi is mat of pru tho. i see a man, met we sha ful
soo be ren in pie. com, let us fle in our cha, or els at
lea tou his kne and ent him tha he hav mer on us."

thu spa he, and the old man was con, and he was dis
exc, and the hai on his pli lim sto up, and he sto
sti ama. but the hel cam nig of him and too the old man's
han, and spa and que him: "whi, fat, dos tho thu
gui the hor and mul thr the div nig, whe oth
mor are asl? had tho no fea of the fie-bre ach,
thy bit foe tha are har ani the? if one of the sho esp
the car suc tre thr the swi bla nig, wha the
wou be thy tho? nei art tho you thy, and thy com
her is old, tha ye sho mak def aga a man tha sho
ass the fir. but i wil no wis har the, yea i wil kee any
oth fro thy hur: for the sim of my dea fat i see in
the."

and to him in ans spa the old man, god pri: "eve so, kin
son, are all the thi as tho say. nev hat som god
str for his han eve ove me in tha he hat sen a way
suc as tho to mee me, a bea of goo luc, by the nob of thy
for and sem; and tho art wis of hea and of ble par
art tho spr."

and to him aga spa the mes, the sla of arg: "all thi,
old sir, has tho ver spo ari. but com say thi and tel me
tru whe tho art tak for a gre and goo tre unt
ali men, whe it may abi for the in saf, or whe by thi ye
are all for hol ili in fea; so far the bes man amo you hat
per, eve thy son; for of bat wit the ach aba he nev
a jot."

and to him in ans spa the old man, god pri, "who art tho,
nob sir, and of who art bor? for mee has tho spo of the fat
of my hap son."

and to him aga spa the mes, the sla of arg: "tho art
pro me, old sir, in ask me of nob hec. him hav i ful oft
see wit min eye in glo bat, and whe at the shi he was
sla the arg he dra thi, pie the wit the kee
bro, and we sto sti and mar the, for ach suf
us not to fig, bei wro aga atr' son. his squ am i, and
cam in the sam wel-wro shi. fro the myr i com, and my
fat is pol. wea is he, and an old man eve as tho, and six
oth son hat he, and i am his sev. wit the oth i cas lot,
and it fel to me to far hit wit the hos. and now am i com fro
the shi to the pla, for at day-bre the gla-eye ach wil
set the bat in arr aro the tow. for it cha the to be
sit her, nor can the ach lor hol in the fur for the
fra."

and the old man, god pri, ans him, say: "if ver tho
art a squ of ach pel' son, com tel me all the tru,
whe sti my son is by the shi, or whe ere now ach hat
riv him lim fro lim and cas him to the dog."

the to him aga spa the mes the sla of arg: "old sir,
not yet hav dog or bir dev him, but the lie he sti by
ach' shi, eve as he fel, amo the hut, and the twe mor
now hat ris upo him, nor dot his fle cor at all, nei
wor con it, suc as dev men sla in war. tru ach
dra him rec aro the bar of his dea com so oft as
div day daw, yet mar he him not; tho wou mar if tho
cou go see thy how dew fre he lie, and is was cle of
blo, nor any def; and all his wou whe he was
str are clo; how man of thy son, tho he be but a dea
cor, for the hel him dea at hea."

thu spa he, and the old man rej, and ans him, say: "my
son, it is ver a goo thi to giv due off wit to the
imm, for nev did my chi--if tha chi ind i had--for
in our hal the god who inh oly. the hav the
rem thi for him, alb his por is dea. but com now tak
fro me thi goo gob, and gua me mys and gui me, und
hea, tha i may com unt the hut of pel' son."

the spa unt him aga the mes the sla of arg: "tho art
pro me, old sir, who am you tha tho, but tho wil not
pre upo me, in tha tho bid me tak gif fro the wit
ach' pri. i wer afr and sha at hea to def him,
les som evi com to pas on me her. but as thy gui i wou go
eve unt fam arg, acc the cou in swi shi or
on foo. not fro sco of thy gui wou any ass the the."

thu spa the hel, and lea on the cha beh the hor he
swi too las and rei int his han, and bre bra spi
int hor and mul. but whe the wer com to the tow and tre
of the shi, the wer the sen jus bus the abo the
sup. the the mes, the sla of arg, she sle upo the
all, and str ope the gat and thr bac the bar, and
bro wit pri and the spl gif upo his wai. and the cam
to the lof hut of the son of pel, whi the myr mad for
the kin and hew the tim of the pin, and tha it wit
dow tha-rus tha the mow in the mea, and aro it mad
for him the lor a gre cou wit clo-set pal; and the doo
was bar by a sin bol of pin tha thr ach won to dri
hom, and thr dre bac tha mig bar--thr of the res, but
ach by him wou dri it hom. the ope the hel her
the doo for the old man, and bro in the spl gif for pel'
fle-foo son, and des fro the cha to the ear and spa
alo: "old sir, i tha hav com to the am an imm god, eve
her, for my fat sen me to com the on thy way. but now
wil i dep fro the nor com wit ach' sig; it wer cau
of wra tha an imm god sho thu sho fav ope unt
mor. but tho go in and cla the kne of pel' son and ent
him for his fat's sak and his mot's of the lov hai and for
his chi's sak tha tho may mov his sou."

thu her spa, and dep unt hig oly. but pri lea fro
the car to the ear, and lef ida in his pla; he sta to min
the hor and mul; but the old man mad str for the hou whe
ach dea to zeu was won to sit. and the he fou the man
him, and his com sat apa: two onl, the her aut and
alk, of the sto of are, wer bus in att; and he was
lat cea fro mea, eve fro eat and dri: and sti the
tab sto bes him. but the wer una of gre pri as he cam
in, and so sto he ani and cla in his han the kne of
ach, and kis his han, ter, man-sla, tha sle man of
pri's son. and as whe a gri cur com upo a man who in his
own cou hat sla ano and esc to a lan of str, to
the hou of som ric man, and won pos the tha loo on
him--so ach won whe he saw god pri, and the res
won lik, and loo upo one ano. the pri spa and
ent him, say: "bet the, o ach lik to god, of thy
fat tha is of lik yea wit me, on the gri pat of old
age. him hap are the dwe rou abo ent evi, nor is
the any to war fro him rui and ban. nev whi he hea
of the as yet ali he rej in his hea, and hop wit day
aft day tha he sha see his dea son ret fro tro-lan. but
i, i am utt unb, sin i beg son the bes men in wid
tro-lan, but dec unt the tha non of the is lef. fif i had,
whe the son of the ach cam; nin wer bor to me of one
mot, and con bar the res wit my hal. now of the mor
par had imp are uns the kne, and he who was yet lef and
gua cit and men, him sle tho but now as he fou for his
cou, eve hec. for his sak com i unt the shi of the ach
tha i may win him bac fro the, and i bri wit me unt ran.
yea, fea tho the god, ach, and hav com on me, eve me,
bet the of thy fat. lo, i am yet mor pit tha he, and
hav bra wha non oth man on ear hat bra bef, to str
for my han tow the fac of the sla of my son."

thu spa he, and sti wit ach des to mak lam for his
fat. and he tou the old man's han and gen mov him bac. and
as the bot bet the of the dea, so pri for man-sla
hec wep sor as he was fal bef ach' fee, and ach
wep for his own fat, and now aga for pat, and the moa
wen up thr the hou. but whe nob ach had sat him
wit lam, and the des the dep fro his hea and lim,
str he spr fro his sea and rai the old man by his han,
pit his hoa hea and hoa bea, and spa unt him win wor
and sai: "ah hap! man ill thi ver tho has end in thy
hea. how dur tho com alo to the shi of the ach and to
mee the eye of the man who hat sla ful man of the bra son? of
iro ver is thy hea. but com the set the on a sea, and we wil
let our sor lie qui in our hea for all our pai, for no ava
com of chi lam. thi is the lot the god hav spu for mis
men, tha the sho liv in pai; yet the are sor. for
two urn sta upo the flo of zeu fil wit his evi gif, and
one wit ble. to who zeu who joy is in the lig
dea a min lot, tha man cha now upo ill and now aga on
goo, but to who he giv but of the bad kin him he bri to
sco, and evi fam cha him ove the goo ear, and he is a
wan hon of nei god nor men. eve thu to pel gav the
god spl gif fro his bir, for he exc all men in goo
for and wea, and was kin of the myr, and mor tho he
was the god gav him a god to be his bri. yet eve on him god
bro evi, see tha the aro to him no off of pri
son in his hal, sav tha he beg one son to an unt dea.
nei may i ten him as he gro old, sin ver far fro my cou
i am dwe in tro-lan, to vex the and thy chi. and of the,
old sir, we hav hea how of old tim tho wer hap, eve how of all
tha les, sea of mak, bou to the nor the and phr
far up and the vas hel--of all the fol, men say, tho
wer the ric in wea and in son, but aft tha the pow of
hea bro thi ban on the, eve are bat and man-sla
aro thy cit. kee cou, and lam not una in thy hea.
for not wil tho ava by gri for thy son, nei sha tho
bri him bac to lif or eve som new evi com upo the."

the mad ans unt him the old man, god pri: "bid me not to a
sea, o fos of zeu, so lon as hec lie unc for at the
hut, but str giv him bac tha i may beh him wit min
eye; and acc tho the gre ran tha we bri. so may tho
hav ple the, and com unt thy nat lan, sin tho has
spa me fro the fir."

the fle-foo ach loo ste upo him and sai: "no lon
cha me, old sir; of mys am i min to giv hec bac to the,
for the cam to me a mes fro zeu, eve my mot who bar me,
dau of the anc one of the sea. and i kno, o pri, in my min,
nor am una tha som god it is tha hat gui the to the swi
shi of the ach. for no mor man, eve tho in pri of you,
wou dar to com amo the hos, for nei cou he esc the
wat, nor eas thr bac the bol of our doo. the now sti
my hea no mor ami my tro, les i lea not eve the in pea,
old sir, wit my hut, alb tho art my sup, and les i
tra the com of zeu."

thu spa he, and the old man fea, and obe his wor. and the son
of pel lea lik a lio thr the doo of the hou, not alo,
for wit him wen two squ, the her aut and alk, the who
abo all his com ach hon, sav onl pat tha was
dea. the the loo fro und the yok the hor and mul, and led
in the old man's cri-her and set him on a cha, and fro the wai
of goo fel the too the cou ran set on hec's hea.
but the lef two rob and a wel-spu dou, tha ach mig
wra the dea the whe he gav him to be car hom. and he cal
for han and bad the was and ano him whe the had bor
him apa, so tha pri sho not loo upo his son, les he sho
not ref the wra at his sor hea whe he sho loo upo
his son, and les ach' hea be vex the and he sla him and
tra the com of zeu. so whe the han had was the
bod and ano it wit oil, and had thr ove it a fai rob and a
dou, the ach him lif it and lai it on a bie, and his
com wit him lif it on to the pol wag. the he gro
alo and cal on his dea com by his nam: "pat, be not
vex wit me if tho hea eve in the hou of had tha i hav giv
bac nob hec unt his dea fat, for not unw is the ran
he hat giv me, whe i wil dea to the aga thy rig sha."

thu spa nob ach, and wen bac int the hut, and sat him dow
on the cun-wro cou whe he had ari by the opp
wal, and spa a wor to pri: "thy son, old sir, is giv bac as
tho wou and lie on a bie, and wit the bre of day tho sha
see him thy as tho car him. but now bet we us of sup.
for eve fai-hai nio bet her of mea, she who twe
chi per in her hal, six dau and six lus son. the
son apo, in his ang aga nio, sle wit arr fro his
sil bow, and the dau arc art, for tha nio mat
her aga fai-che let, say tha the god bar but
twa but her man chi: so the tho the wer but twa
des the oth all. nin day the lay in the blo, nor was
the any to bur the, for kro tur the fol to sto. yet on
the ten day the god of hea bur the, and she the bet her
of mea, whe she was wea out wit wee tea. and som now
amo the cli, on the lon mou, eve on sip, whe the
say are the cou-pla of nym tha dan aro ach, the
she, alb a sto, bro sti ove her tro fro the god. but
com let us too, nob fat, tak tho of mea, and aft tho
sha mou ove thy dea son as tho car him to ili; and man
tea sha be his due."

thu spa fle ach, and spr up, and sle a pur whi she,
and his com ski and mad it rea in see fas, and
div it cun and pie it wit spi, and roa it car
and dre all off. and aut too bre and ser it on a tab in
fai bas, whi ach dea out the fle. and the str
for the han to the goo che lyi rea bef the. but whe
the had put off the des of mea and dri, the pri son of
dar mar at ach to see how gre he was and how goo,
for he was lik a god to loo upo. and ach mar at pri son
of dar, beh his nob asp and hea to his wor. but
whe the had gaz the fil upo one ano, the fir spa the
old man, god pri, to ach: "now pre giv me whe to
lie, fos of zeu, tha of swe sle als we may now tak our
fil at res: for nev yet hav min eye clo ben the lid
sin at thy han my son los his lif, but i con mou and
bro ove cou gri, gro in the cou-clo ami the
mir. now at las hav i tas bre and pou bri win dow my
thr, but til now i had tas nau."

he sai, and ach bad his com and han to set a bed
ben the por, and to cas the fai shi rug and spr
cov abo and the to lay thi man to be a clo ove
all. and the mai wen for fro the inn hai wit tor in the
han, and qui spr two bed in has. the wit bit mea
[in his ref to aga] sai fle-foo ach unt pri:
"lie tho wit, dea sir, les the com hit one of the
cou of the ach, suc as eve tak cou wit me by my
sid, as cus is. if any of suc sho beh the thr the swi
bla nig, for he mig hap tel it to aga she of
the hos, and thu wou the be del in giv bac the dea. but
com say thi to me and tel it tru, how man day' spa tho art fai
to mak fun for nob hec, so tha for so lon i may mys abi
and may kee bac the hos."

and the old man, god pri, ans him, say: "if tho art
ver wil tha i acc nob hec's fun, by doi as
tho say, o ach, tho wil do me gra. for tho kno how we
are pen wit the cit, and woo fro the mou is far to fet,
and the tro are muc in fea. nin day wil we mak moa for him in
our hal, and on the ten we wil hol fun and the fol sha
fea, and on the ele we wil mak, a bar ove him, and on the
twe we wil do bat if nee be."

the aga spa the fle nob ach unt him, say: "all thi, o
anc pri, sha be as tho bid; for i wil hol bac the bat
eve so lon a tim as tho tel me."

thu spe he cla the old man's rig han at the wri, les he
sho be any afr at hea. so the in the for of the hou
lai the dow, pri and the her, wit wis tho at the
hea, but ach sle in a rec of the fir-wro hut, and
bes him lay fai-che bri.

now all oth god and war lor of cha slu all nig,
by sof sle ove. but not on the hel her did sle tak hol
as he sou wit his hea how he sho gui for kin pri fro
the shi une of the tru sen. and he sto abo his hea
and spa a wor to him: "old sir, no tho the has tho of any
evi, see tho yet sle amo men tha are thi ene, for
tha ach spa the. tru now has tho won bac thy dea son,
and at gre pri. but for thy lif wil thy son tho has lef beh
be off thr ran, if but aga atr' son be awa of
the, and awa be all the ach."

thu spa he, and the old man fea, and rou the her. and her
yok the hor and mul for the, and him dra the lig
thr the cam, and non was awa of the.

but whe the cam to the for of the fai-flo riv, [eve edd
xan, beg of imm zeu,] the her dep up to hig
oly, and mor of the saf rob spr ove all the ear. and
the wit wai and moa dra the hor to the cit, and the mul dre
the dea. nor mar the any man or fai-gir wom unt kas,
pee of gol aph, hav gon up upo per, was awa of her
dea fat as he sto in the car, and the her tha was cri to the
tow. the beh she him tha lay upo the bie beh the mul, and
the she wai and cri alo thr all the tow: "o men and
wom of tro, com ye hit and loo upo hec, if eve whi he was
ali ye rej whe he cam bac fro bat, sin gre joy was he
to the cit and all the fol."

thu spa she, nor was man or wom lef wit the cit, for upo all
cam une gri. and nea the gat the met pri bri hom
the dea. fir bew him his dea wif and lad mot, as the cas
the on the fai-whe wai and tou his hea; and aro the
sto the thr and wep. so all day lon unt the set of the sun
the had lam hec in tea wit the gat, had not the old man
spo fro the car amo the fol: "giv me pla for the mul to pas
thr; her ye sha hav you fil of wai, whe i hav
bro him unt his hom."

thu spa he, and the par asu and gav pla to the wai. and
the oth whe the had bro him to the fam hou, lai him on a
fre bed, and set bes him min lea of the dir, who
wai a mou lay, whi the wom mad moa wit the. and amo
the wom whi-arm and led the lam, whi in her han
she hel the hea of hec sla of men: "hus, tho art gon you
fro lif, and lea me a wid in thy hal. and the chi is yet but
a lit one, chi of ill-fat par, the and me; nor met
sha he gro up to man, for ere the sha thi cit be utt
des. for tho art ver per who did wat ove it, who
gua it and kep saf its nob wiv and inf lit one.
the soo sha be voy in the hol shi, yea and i too wit
the, and tho, my chi, sha eit go wit me unt a pla whe
tho sha toi at uns tas, lab bef the fac of som
har lor, or els som ach wil tak the by the arm and hur the
fro the bat, a gri dea, for tha he is wro bec
hec sle his bro or fat or son, sin ful man of the
ach in hec's han hav bit the fir ear. for no lig han
had thy fat in the gri fra. the the fol lam him
thr the cit, and woe uns and mou has tho lef to
thy par, hec, but wit me chi sha gri pai abi.
for nei did tho str thy han to me fro a bed in thy dea,
nei did spe to me som mem wor tha i mig hav tho
on eve as my tea fal nig and day."

thu spa she wai, and the wom joi the moa. and amo the
hek aga led the lou lam: "hec, of all my chi far
dea to my hea, ver whi tho wer ali dea wer tho to the
god, and eve in thy doo of dea hav the had car for the. for
oth son of min who he too cap wou fle ach sel bey
the unv sea unt sam and imb and smo lem, but whe
wit kee-edg bro he had ber the of thy lif he was fai to
dra the oft aro the tom of his com, eve pat who tho
sle, yet mig he not rai him up the. but now all dew and
fre tho lie in our hal, lik one on who apo, lor of the
sil bow, hat des and sla him wit his gen dar."

thu spa she wai, and sti une moa. the thi hel
led the sor lam: "hec, of all my bre of tro far dea
to my hea! tru my lor is god ale who bro me to
tro-lan--wou i had die ere the. for thi is now the twe yea
sin i wen the and am gon fro my own nat lan, but nev yet
hea i evi or des wor fro the; nay, if any oth hap
upb me in the pal-hal, whe bro or sis of thi or
bro's fai-rob wif, or thy mot--but thy fat is eve kin to
me as he wer my own--the wou tho soo suc wit wor and
ref the, by the gen of thy spi and by thy gen wor.
the bew i the wit pai at hea, and my hap sel wit
the, for no mor is any lef in wid tro-lan to be my fri and kin
to me, but all men shu at me."

thu spa she wai, and the the gre mul of the peo
gro. but the old man pri spa a wor amo the fol: "bri woo,
men of tro, unt the cit, and be not any afr at hea of a
cra amb of the ach; for thi mes ach gav me whe he
sen me fro the bla shi, tha the sho do us no hur unt the
twe mor ari."

thu spa he, and the yok oxe and mul to wai, and qui the
the flo bef the cit. so nin day the gat gre sto of
woo. but whe the ten mor ros wit lig for men, the bar the
for bra hec, wee tea, and on a lof pyr the lai the
dea man, and the cas fir.

but whe the dau of daw, ros-fin mor, sho for, the
gat the fol aro glo hec's pyr. fir que the
wit bri win all the bur, so far as the fir's str wen,
and the his bre and com gat his whi bon lam,
and big tea flo dow the che. and the bon the too and lai
in a gol urn, shr the in sof pur rob, and str
lai the urn in a hol gra and pil the gre clo-set sto,
and hea wit spe a bar, whi wat wer set eve
aro, les the wel-gre ach sho mak ons bef the
tim. and whe the had hea the bar the wen bac, and gat
the tog and fea rig wel in nob fea at the pal of
pri, zeu-fos kin.

thu hel the fun for hec tam of hor.




end of the pro gut ete of hom's ili tra by
lan, lea, and mye.
