Federal University of ABC (Portuguese: Universidade Federal do ABC, UFABC) is
a Brazilian institution of higher learning based in Santo André, with
operations in several municipalities in the ABC region, all in the state of
São Paulo.  The chairman of the committee that formulated the proposal of the
university was Luiz Bevilacqua, who became its second rector.

UFABC is the only federal university in Brazil with 100% of its professors
holding Ph.D.s and, for the second consecutive year in 2011, emerged as the
only university in Brazil with impact factor in scientific publications above
the world average according to SCImago Institutions Rankings.

In 2004, the Ministry of Education sent to Congress the Bill 3962/2004, which
created the Federal University of ABC. This law was enacted by the president
and published in the Official Gazette of 27 July 2005, under No. 11,145 and
dated 26 July 2005.

UFABC aims at the integration of several campi in the ABC Region. Campi are
located in the cities of Santo André (headquarters) and São Bernardo do Campo.

Deans UFABC first dean was the former dean from UNICAMP, professor Hermano
Tavares, whose term lasted from 2005 until 2007.

Tavares was succeeded by the former president of the Brazilian Space Agency,
professor Luiz Bevilacqua, who was his vice-rector and chair of the
committee of implementation of the university.

For health reasons, Bevilacqua resigned in mid-2008, and was succeeded by the
former president of the Brazilian Society of Physics, professor Adalberto
Fazzio.

In January 2010, President Lula appointed the former dean of research of the
UNICAMP and professor of USP, Helio Waldman to hold the post of rector of
UFABC for the next four years.

Recognition The French newspaper Le Monde published an article that highlights
the fact that it is the first Brazilian university to rely on 100% of
professors with doctorates.  Writing in the Mexican Gnoseogénesis, the doctor
José Luis Morán López of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México
highlights the pleasant surprise of the creation of UFABC and its
interdisciplinary project created by 25 Brazilian scientists.  The portal of
the Methodist University of São Paulo published an article on the inauguration
of one of the blocks UFABC made by the then-president of the Republic, Luiz
Inácio Lula da Silva where it talks about the goal of leaving the UFABC among
the 100 best universities in the world, for example, ahead of the Brazilian
university USP that was in 138th position among the best universities in the
world.  Writing in the Portal Luis Nassif, Adalberto Fazzio (professor, USP)
and Armando Z. Milioni (associate professor, ITA), highlight the six
interdisciplinary axes at AFABC and the fact that less than 50% of the
subjects that make up student grades are compulsory.  During the
presentation of the seminar "Interdisciplinarity", held in April 2009, a
professor of Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), doctor Alaor Clark
commented that he considers the UFABC the most advanced interdisciplinary
project in Brazil and in the world.  In a presentation to the Center of
Physics of Porto (Portugal), the professor doctor Daniel Zanetti de Florio
cites the fact that UFABC have an innovative educational project based on
Bologna Process.  In an article in the newspaper Diário do Grande ABC by
the then-dean of research in UFABC, Helio Waldman comments that the newly
created UFABC was born in an advanced stage for the 20th century and
achieved in a few years the development in research that universities such
as USP and Unicamp, for example, took decades to build. The article is
constructed from the result of a notice that shows the UFABC in the first
time of Brazilian universities in nanotechnology.  Another article
published in the Diário do Grande ABC by professor Armando Zeferino
Milioni (ITA) said the creation of the Masters and Doctorate of UFABC and
highlights its qualified staff.


The UFABC is the only federal university in the Brazil that has 100% of
professors with a doctoral degree. UFABC research in Nanotechnology has been
recognised by CNPq. Researchers in Nanotechnology in UFABC were able to
publish articles in the scientific journal Nano Letters.

The university employs professors who received the Capes awards for Best
Thesis, researchers with the Commendation and the Grand Cross of the Brazilian
Order of Scientific Merit, members of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences, and
representatives of national scientific organizations.

Professor's room in Block A In March 2007 the CAPES approved 10 of 11
applications for the opening of post-graduate studies (Master and Doctorate).
The CAPES on average approves only one third of the applications referred to
it.

UFABC participates in major research projects worldwide, among them the
presence of the university in the largest scientific project of all time, the
Large Hadron Collider (LHC) of the European Organization for Nuclear Research
(CERN) that is operating the largest particle accelerator ever built and also
in the DZero Experiment of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
(Fermilab) of the United States Department of Energy that conducts research on
the basic structure of matter in the second-largest particle accelerator in
the world. The university has a presence in the first Brazilian space mission
to deep space, the Mission Aster (Missão Aster), of the Brazilian Space
Agency, which provides for the launching of a space probe in 2015.

UFABC has research completed or in progress with research institutions such as
the COPPE-UFRJ, the National Institute for Space Research, the Brazilian Space
Agency, the Angra Nuclear Power Plant, the National Education and Research
Network (RNP), UNICAMP, Unifesp, USP, UFSCar, the Brazilian National
Synchrotron Light Laboratory (LNLS), the Institute for Advanced Studies of the
Brazilian General Command for Aerospace Technology (CTA-IEAv), the
Eletronuclear, the Institute for Research on Stem Cells (IPCTRON), the
Brazilian National Laboratory for Scientific Computing (LNCC), the Braziliam
Navy Technology Center (CTMSP), the National Institute of Science and
Technology for Optical Communications (FOTONICOM), the ICMC-USP, the Brazilian
Society of Biophysics, UFRGS, UNIFEI and UNIFENAS.

The university collaborates with research institutes as the Max Planck
Institute (Germany), the Paris-Sud 11 University (France), the National
Acoustic Laboratories (Australia) and the Pierre Auger Observatory
(Argentina), the National Institute for Materials Science (Japan), the
University of Texas System (USA), the Universidade do Algarve (Portugal) and
the Universidade de Coimbra (Portugal).
